Current Status: Student at VIT Chennai

Hey there, guys. I kinda have access to publish documents to this sub-domain on Craft. For credibility’s purposes, I thought that maybe I should have something at top, just to make sure that it isn’t empty, so I decided to turn this into a little “me” page, which would talk more about who I am.

Document

A little intro about myself…

Ongoing Projects

Amaze Series

Document

AmazeCC

##SugeethJSA / ##AmazeSort

Document

Hyper Mania

Document

My Work Side

Apple Shortcuts and me

I create shortcuts for the Apple Shortcuts app as a hobby, for the love and fun of it. I publish my shortcuts on RoutineHub.  I’d love to document my projects, but I don’t have time… 🤪 

Spring Series

These shortcuts are a set of everyday utilities that any person might need for their digital life. 🥬 They give a much-needed fresh breath of air to any person's phone; making a person's life a bit easier or secure and giving them peace of mind; knowing that there exists a tool to cater to their needs.

Document

Spring PDF Tools

Document

🌟 Spring Lock Comprehensive Documentation

Document

Spring Updater

My Publisher's User Profile

Just a moment...

Document

Some tips and tricks for Shortcuts

College Tips

Complete DSA Guide: Linked Lists & Competitive Programming Techniques

Windows tips(?)

Document

Update codes for apps

Document

How to set up Windows 11?

Document

⚠️ The Stages of Windows Destruction ⚠️

My Educational initiatives

Ok… I couldn’t keep myself inactive knowing that I could literally do something better for this world (I know, altruism isn’t that great, as I’ve come to realise 🙄). So here are yet another set of initiatives.

Document

Doubts Group A

Document

Jugzards

Document

Project Troopers

Document

The Outlier Project

My defunct companies

Back in the day, I used to have the dream of running companies. The CoVID-19 Lockdown provided me the opportunity to do so, and I did create quite a few companies. All of them failed however… 😂 Now, when I reflect back on it, I feel like laughing 😆.

Document

Flash 4 Friends

Document

AGNBOC

Document

HSAG Ingeniousity

My experiences using Craft for School

This section is dedicated to displaying my undertakings that I’ve done over the years. Some of them are masterpieces, while some others are complete failures. 🤣

My first experience using Craft was to create a place where I could beautifully send my “assembly scripts” to my teachers. Yup, that’ll be available here for all to see. (Fair Warning… ⚠️ I was in Class 8 and Class 9 back then, so don’t judge my quality 🤦.)

Document

Assembly - Scripts

This one is ℹ️ one of my best projects (in my view… don’t think 💭 I’m boasting.) I did this along with my friend Anurag… we were appointed as Election Commissioners for a class election (which was not even real, it was just an activity). I’ll provide a link.. 🔗 

Joint Election Commission of Class 9 C and 9 D - Documentation

Sweet Sagittarius, A Cultural(s) Section!

Back when I was in school, I studied in an environment where my classmates and I were split into different houses (i.e Bosco, Savio, Rua, Thomas houses). Every year, these houses compete against each other in sports and cultural events. Here, I've juiced up some great materials for some events. Let's see if you'd like'em!

Document

Lawyer’s Up

Document

Photoshop for Complete Beginners

Document

Shipwreck

The Cultured Info-box Portal

More about my personal experiences in these events

I've usually been an ardent participant in the cultural events at my school. They've always been a great platform to expose us to many other peers at my school and connect with them.

When I was in…

Document

Class 9

Document

Class 10

Document

Class 11

Document

Class 12

My Graphic Design, Animation and Video Editing Work

Graphic Design

The Corridor Initiative

DBX Cyber Club - Logos

📎 Final Logos - DBX Cyber Club.pdf

📎 Poster 1 - Ver 2.pdf

I have been selected for the first round of the GDG Club's Recruitment and this was the poster I made which made me get selected for the second round.

📎 Sugeeth GDG UI UX Hackathon Design - Updated.pdf

Animation

Live

My old projects/research work..

I’ve done a few “projects” in the past, and I’ve open sourced them below for others as an example or an outlier guide.

Document

Sugeeth’s Sustainable Development Project

Document

My experience with the CBSE Heritage India Quiz

Document

Lenovo stuff

Document

Random Stuff

Stories of my Life

Document

Sob Stories and Ranting

Deepstash and Me

It’s a great Social Media service, that is kinda good at what it does… delivering great concepts as bite-sized ideas.

I found this article on Deepstash, and I think you'll like it!

Quotes for Making Great Things Happen | Decisive Leadership

Music

I also published some music scores online—these were for existing pieces of music that hadn’t been available anywhere on the internet before. Here's a link to my publisher profile to take a look at the scores….

I also studied till Grade 5 in ABRSM Music Theory (passed with Distinction) and Grade 4 in ABRSM Piano (passed with Merit).

Exploring Sugeeth_Jayaraj&#x27;s Profile Page | Musescore.com

Where else am I?

Hmm..🤔 I don’t keep socials (there are exceptions bruh).

Sugeeth Jayaraj S A (@sugeethjsa) • Instagram profile

Linkedin

SugeethJSA - Overview

www.reddit.com

sugeeth_jayaraj

Notice block

Might contain stuff that might come across as offensive…

Bruh, 😎 I’m not responsible for your interpretation of this whole doc. 

And ⚠️ I’m not boasting here at all…  If you’d think I’m doing so, then I’m sorry.

Obviously, this page is copyrighted. I claim copyright for my content on this page, unless otherwise noted. You can use this page for inspiration and ideas, and I certainly don’t claim copyright for anything that’s not mine.

BTW, I’m sorry if I had offended you. Got any issues? Then comment on this block, and I’ll get back to you soon.

At the end…

"The role of a leader is not to come up with all the great ideas. The role of a leader is to create an environment in which great ideas can happen."
 

- SIMON SINEK
(I found this quote on Deepstash)

A little intro about myself…

Hi, I'm Sugeeth, a first year student at VIT Chennai. Here's a short profile of my accolades, projects, works and opinions.

Who am I?

I am an ardent, hard-working and enthusiastic person, who loves to collaborate with others and grow together as a team.

Personality Type

Well, I also took a personality test on 16personalities.com and "NERIS Analytics" classifies me as an ENFJ-T, a natural "turbulent" protagonist, according to the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator® (MBTI®) scale.

Personality Test Results

Personality type: Protagonist (ENFJ-T)

Traits: Extraverted – 67%, Intuitive – 74%, Feeling – 60%, Judging –56%, Turbulent – 71%

Role: Diplomat

Strategy: Social Engagement

ENFJ Personality (Protagonist) | 16Personalities

Test Results reflect the personality type as of 2022.

AmazeCC

Hello guys,

Once in a lifetime, I think people get the opportunity to make things for the better. That's what one of my seniors did when he built UniCC (btw great respect for you Arya anna)

UniCC is an app that shows data from your VTOP in a clean and simple way.

Here I was during the summer holidays, and I thought the UniCC app was UI-wise didn't adapt to Desktop and mobile app guidelines a bit. I'm pretty new to WebDev. So I created a fork of the repo, and I started working on making it better. I used Antigravity a lot to help refine a few of the elements (and port features from other apps over coz I'm like new to WebDev) but I tried my best to make it look great for desktop and Android.

I put a pull request and asked anna to review, he said that he developed UniCC to achieve one-click access to the most important features in his life. Thus, he mentioned that he wouldn't be like accepting any UI changes for now, but he suggested that I could put it up as my own fork/app and develop it.

Link to my app: https://amaze-cc.vercel.app

So from June 2 till now, I've been working to make AmazeCC one of the best experiences possible for iOS, Android, and Desktop.

Features apart from UniCC:

Brand new sidebar for the Desktop and Tablet modes, collapsible

All new Profile Page with new settings to switch between Dayscholar and Hosteller, hide persistent UI cards on screens other than the main screen.

For Dayscholars, a bus feature has been implemented that allows you to search for buses along the route. And the app automatically calculates your attendance percentage against the 85% FFCS requirement instead of 75% main attendance requirement, available with a toggle in the profile section.

Custom name yourself

Share your timetable with friends, get timetables from friends, and put friends in group. When you click on the groups card, you see which group of friends are free as per timetable. For certain friends, you can click eye icon and you will be able to see a new common timetable option in the dashboard (attendance page) where you can view common schedules for your besties. - (Built from a clone of the VIT Verse app)

FFCSonTheGo -> feature imported: Helps you to set multiple timetables during FFCS when you upload the excel sheet provided by HOD, formated as per guidelines given (around FFCS time)

OD Hours - Now if anyone puts an OD by mistake in your name, it will show how many OD hours are Wasted : where present status is overridden by OD (accidental scenario). The OD hours panel has also been reworked with calendar, list views and heatmap of ODs used.

Attendance page revamped: The Attendance page has been revamped with attendance predictor (from UniCC) as well as list of attended classes that can be viewed in calendar, list and heatmap view. You can filter through which classes you have attended or missed, and you see whether you have gotten notes from your friends for that class. If yes, then click on notes button. It will show you a count of how many classes you have missed notes for.

The same attendance log revamp is also available overall for all classes under the clipboard button (i.e. tracker option) with all three views.

Question Bank Archive created with Papers tab as well as extracted questions tab, that way you don't have to browse through PDFs to get the questions. Crowdsourced by extracting questions from the QP with AI, and is admin supervised.

Academic Performance page (under Exams -> Grades option): Has Overview of your performance over time, with Spiderweb and line chart analysis; along with grades history and grade ranges, and a dedicated curriculum page.

Exam schedules has been turned into a card view format: making it easier for mobile view.

Marks Page revamp: For ACE curriculum students, the embedded theory and lab is unified into one single card. The marks page now has predictor features such as maximum attainable marks (based on lost weightage points), predicted total percentage of marks (based on your current performance). And it also has a beta grade prediction feature that calculates avg and SD for all of the assignments in your class, and presents in which grade band you lie for each assignment and test. It also has overall beta grade prediction, where the app predicts your grade using currently available data, and shows what is the maximum possible grade you can achieve, and how many marks are required to achieve your target grade, if you set one.

Features not yet implemented but config present:

Push Notifications

Features that will never be implemented:

Faculty Review: This is one of the features that got flagged and stricken down, and took down one of the most popular apps along with it. (Fare-thee-well, VIT Verse, one of the greatest OG third-party VTOP app)

How can I trust you with the grades prediction data? I don't want it to be misused.

The grades prediction feature is powered by Welford's Algorithm, which takes your marks, and processes them to calculate your standard deviation and mean. It then does not store your marks data and discards it. This is borrowed from UniCC, but upgraded to make it more effective. This implementation allows you to see your continuous grade statistics throughout the semester, thus allowing you to better target your grade and attain it. The entire app is open source, and you can use ChatGPT or claude to prompt and ask whether the app works as per the code written in the repo. Vercel pulls directly from this repo.

It depends on the honour system. By nature, the API trusts what data your app gives, i.e. what the user gives. This is the best possible way that I know of, to implement this feature. If you all have any better suggestions, please do give me.

By nature, grades prediction can only work if we have multiple data points that are processed. For the processing to happen securely and to ensure that no data conflict arises while creating statistics.

API:

I use a dual API approach. I retain the original UniCC API for the login and everything else (why break something that already works well?), while using my own API for storing Question Bank, dynamic Bus data, and upgraded experimental Grade prediction metrics.

Why call it AmazeCC, and why retain the original logo for now?

I call it AmazeCC, as I brand all of my apps or creations which were heavily AI-driven with the term "Amaze", as it's meant to be bleeding edge and explore stuff. I retain the original logo for now, as it my way of paying tribute to Arya anna.

Future Plans:

I plan to create an AmazeCC community that will maintain this app and upgrade it long after I've left college, and will be provided with the technical know-how and tools to do so, along with non-technical maintainers for the project.

This post is not AI generated. I typed it out fully on my own.

If you've got any features or suggestions or bugs found, feel free to reach out. And please remember, it's a hobbyist project: there will be mistakes and flaws - please report them and I will take my best effort to fix it, if possible given my constraints.

[Image]

[Image]

[Image]

[Image]

[Image]

My Experience @ Dakshina Chitra

A personal outlook on a global phenomenon
By Sugeeth Jayaraj S A
March 09, 2026
12:37 PM

Welcome back, dear viewers, to another experience that I would love to share with you'all! To start of, here's a quote I would like to give everyone some thought about…

"Sometimes the best things in life are unexpected." 
- Faith Sullivan

Which I can argue is definetely true, after going on such a wonderful yet harrowing Industrial Visit to Dakshina Chitra. Yes, what could be harrowing about good ol' Dakshin Chitra? It's a vast expanse, an open museum, that allows us to take a glimpse at the past, a time of great warriors and heros gallore. (which is what our grannies and nannies would tend to tell us stories while reminiscing about the past and lamenting about what an evil world that we live in)

Truth to be told, I had already been to a visit to Dakshina Chitra before. This was on a school field trip during my formative years. I had tried to fit in with my friends, fit in as a group, enjoy with them, and maybe learn and grow… 

Alas, I didn't fit in. I didn't get to enjoy. In fact, I remember only two things from the experience after all that turmoil. One, I should have bought a better sculpture.

Two, I remember distinctly singing "Vivegam" to myself on the bus.

Not nice experiences, one might say. 

This time, I thought it would be different. That life would be different. That my life had changed after the tragedy that my childhood was. So, on March 06, 2026; I set out to go on a IV with my Technical English Communication class. 

To put this into perspective, we could say two things. On the way there, I enjoyed with my friends. I danced, I sang and I was happy. I loved the fact that I got to vibe and be around friends for once. 

On the other side, we had experienced a small accident. Very minor perhaps, but one that derailed our trip for almost an hour, as they were a bit adamant on resolving the issue on the spot.

Well, after we reached there, we took a fantabulous photo of the entire class. Then we were allowed inside, to go around and be happy.

"Be happy.", I thought; as I walked past one of my friends with whom I wasn't on good terms with. Oh why, oh why was I to be reminded about my many shortcomings? Anyways, I went ahead and tried my best to blend in, to roam about and explore. Soon, I forgot all about the encounter. I went inside, and I was happily trotting along with my friends. Nithila and team allowed me to join in on their photos. We explored the vast expanse of the living museum. 

I first went through the Cheittiar house, looking at the traditional verandah and the central courtyard; a staple of the old style tamil homes.

Next, it's the other houses that we explored. As a photogenic generation, my friends kept taking different poses at the different vantage points. Is it possible to be better known if I post more photos on the internet?

I'm not sure.

Maybe I just need to fix a few things at best. After all, it does matter to me that I should take photos continuously?

Well, we continued along and I took inspiration and awe at all the other places that I have been too. Well, it seemed like I kept teleporting from different walks of life and different places at different times in history!

I genuinely loved the fact that I explored the arena. The temples, and the other houses? Wow, wow!

The one that caught my attention the most was the fact that I saw a potters house when I wandered off the road. It felt genuinely interesting to watch potters to shape lumps of clay into perfect.

The most important thing that I learnt that from the educational trip was that as long as a place existed, as long an idea existed, we can still go ahead and visit it. But, for an idea to exist, we must propagate and inform others about it, which is what Dakshina Chitra's main aim is, even to this day. 

I loved the serene, down to Earth and frankly, the mud smell that the houses gave off. It gave me the vibe of a village, and I genuinelyloved it.

I ate the most delicious samosa in a nearby stall, and soon it was time up to say bye bye.

We got on the bus, and we headed on to a recreational centre to eat and chill out. That was fun, but it's outside the scope of this blog post, as I am a birdbrain when it comes to writing blogs.

I expected the trip to be smooth. I expected the trip to be memorable. Did the trip meet my expectations? Well, I agreed, except for a few random hiccups in the otherwise wonderful and beautiful trip.

Thanks for listening to my rant. Until next time, it's me, Sugeeth, signing off!!

VIT Chennai: An experience to behold

By Sugeeth Jayaraj S A

Hello, everyone!

I'm Sugeeth, a person who had just recovered from the trauma of JEE (I mean, aren't all engineering aspirants reeling from the trauma of JEE still? ) 

I began with a simple mission, to get a prestigious position and make my parents happy, because who wouldn't like too?

I ended up switching dreams like a undecided maniac. I wanted to become a doctor, then a astronomer, later a priest. After a few years, I wished I was a pilot; and then I ended up working towards becoming an IITian (well, who doesn't want to become an IITian)? I ended up with something else entirely.

I was thrust headfirst into "the world of engineering" that welcomed me with open arms and clouds with no limits. I had no hopes, but this world gave me something to begin with. It valued what I had and allowed me to use it in future, unlike school where studies was paramount. 

It's been more than a semester since I joined VIT. I got to meet like-minded, quirky and great personalities shining like gemstones in treasure troves!!!

Slowly I built trust among the teachers, and worked on joining clubs. Sure, but why clubs, you'd ask? Someone told me that clubs were the best way to gain achievements and recognition in VIT. They also mentioned that, well, it was very hard to get into a club. In a frenzy, I applied for 6 clubs during the first recruitment season. 

I got rejected by the second club in my application. Immediately I went into overdrive, applying for a combined total of 13 clubs. I ended up getting accepted by 9 clubs. 🤣 Talk about suffering from success, literally…

But I immediately paid the tax… because, well I guess the "Bill comes due". My CAT 2 scores took a huge dive, literally. If CAT 2 had a pass or fail criteria, I would have failed flat on, miserably. Thank the Gods that it didn't have such a criteria. 

The only good thing that I got out of such an endeavor was that I got a chance to participate in multiple events. I mean a lot! From Epochesque, to Decode DSA 2.0, to performing in Music Club's curtain raiser as the Nocturne Band! Wow, it meant a lot!

 → To learn more about the author

      Click above!

© Sugeeth Jayaraj S A
All Rights Reserved.

Hyper Mania

Well, I took the effort to create a blog, at my teacher's insistence, and here it is!

Document

My Experience @ Dakshina Chitra

Document

VIT Chennai: An experience to behold

© Sugeeth Jayaraj S A
All Rights Reserved.

Sugeeth @ Work

Hello, reader! I'm Sugeeth Jayaraj, a fresher studying the B.Tech Electronics and Computer Engineering course at VIT Chennai. My areas of interest are vast and vivid, but for clarity's sake, I'll break them down into traditional domains. I am interested in Artificial Intelligence, hardware-Software Integration, Quantum Computing as well as IOT and Robotics.

Why would one take such a wild course? Electronics and Computer Engineering seem like the best of none. On one hand, there's the exciting world of Electronics and Communications Engineering that I'm missing out. On the other, Computer Engineering has always been the most magnanimous choice for most of the Gen Z kids. 

I took ECM (as it is called), because I was inspired by Dave Cutler, the architect of most of the world's underlying code for most popular operating systems, Windows NT being one of the broadly known ones.

Dave Cutler

The people around him were inspired by his innate understanding of the computer technology and the electronic circuitry that worked in tandem harmony to bring the computer to life. As one of the best engineers to have ever lived, he has left a legacy to be desired and followed. Thus I began my journey in life with the aim to create world's next game changing operating system, that would fundametally change our perception of humanity.

Schooling

I grew up in the urban and rapidly developing areas of Chennai and its outskirts. I studied across multiple schools over the time of my life. I studied Kindergarten in India, my elementary schooling in Woodbury Elementary, Minnesota, US as well as in Don Bosco School of Excellence, Chennai.

I finally finished both my secondary education and senior secondary education under the CBSE at the same school, after which I graduated with a 95.2% in the Boards.

Finally, after attempting JEE, NEET and a host of entrance exams, I finally entered VIT Chennai. Currently, I am pursuing my B.Tech ECM over at VIT Chennai. 

I am technically strong in Physics and very proficient in Computers. i am especially skilled in AI, thanks to the CBSE Intel AI collaboration that led to the formation of a Skill Subject called "Artifical Intelligence" which I wrote as a part of my Class 10 Board examinations. 

Technical interests

As I previously mentioned, I was pretty much fascinated with Electronics and Computer Science from a very young age. My friend Freddin always used to play around with electronics, soldering PC components or whatnot. I have explored the domain of Robotics with the help of the Vex Robotics Toolkit.

Mini-projects

At the same time, I love developing meaningful software applications for the people to use. Some of my projects include the SpringLock shortcut to lock apps on iPhone using a proof-of-concept automation, Spring PDF Tools for offline PDF manipulation on iPhones, AmazeSort to sort through the files and place them in directories using Rule-based and AI-based approaches. 

RoutineHub - Sugeeth

I often love to participate in hackathons and conduct them at times too as they increase curiosity, and spark innovation. In IBM QFF, after attending a series of Quantum lectures, me and my team built a project that would be able to compare Recurrent Neural Networks against Quantum Reservoir Computing methods in order to forecast the best renewable energy source recommended for implementation in a particular area, which bagged first place in the IBM Qiskit Hackathon. It leveraged historic weather data to figure out patterns, predict the weather forecast for a year from the data; and use that data to recommended the best type of renewable energy resource to use. This has a huge impact on Smart City applications.

##dhivyanj / ##qff25-hthn

Personally, I have helped develop web scrapper application with the help of my friends at 180 Degrees Consulting VIT Chennai. It uses the html render code to extract social media links and extract the description metadata to feed to an AI. In electronics, I have helped to create a smart posture sensor device that would help detect the posture of a person and alert them if it is incorrect, using gyroscopes to figure out the relative position of a person in space.

I have done more similar projects, for which I would recommend you to view my GitHub Profile:

SugeethJSA (Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A.) · GitHub

Technical Tools and Skills

I consider myself to be an excellent orator as well as good, ardent, hard-working leader who wishes to ensure the success of the company. I successfully conducted V-Vortex 2026; an event under SCOPE VIT Chennai as the lead of the event and a student coordinator. I am extremely fluent in design tools such as Powerpoint, WePik, Canva in order to bring design to the next level. i am also familiar with iMovie and can do video-editing. 

Moving on to the purely "techy" skills, I am proficient in using Linux, Mac and Windows. I am familiar with coding in Python, HTML, C, Powershell as well as many other languages. I am an ardent tinkerer and I have innate knowledge on how to fix software problems on Windows laptops efficiently. I am comfortable with the command prompt or terminal. i am also proficient in leveraging AI-tools to assist me to complete coding tasks if needed to meaningfully speed up development. I am familiar with Docker too, which I have used to deploy CTF challenges. 

Learning beyond the classroom

I don't believe that a classroom can teach you everything. Instead, I believe that real-life skills matter. On that regard, I have attended multiple computer-science workshops to enhance my knowledge. I have attended the Decode DSA 2.0 session by Abdul Bari, DSA extraordinaire; which helped me discover the importance and neat tricks behind acing Data Structures and Algorithms. Along with that, I have also attempted the Google Cloud Course Study Program and attended a workshop on Introduction to Azure AI, which taught me how to leverage cloud infrastructure to deploy AI models. All of these events have helped me to hone my skills in the field of computing.

Sugeeth Jayaraj S A | Google Skills

Engineering Mindset

I approach problem-solving by breaking complex issues into smaller, manageable parts and testing solutions step by step. When troubleshooting, I rely on logical reasoning, careful observation, and learning from errors rather than avoiding them. I value both teamwork and independent learning as collaborating helps me gain new perspectives, while self-learning builds depth and confidence. Through projects and experiments, I have developed an engineering mindset focused on curiosity, precision, adaptability, and continuous improvement, as previously mentioned in team collaborations above.

Achievements

I have won multiple accolades at the state, national and international levels due to my skills in Computer and English! I have earned notable ranks in national and international Olympiads, including International Rank 13 in the National Cyber Olympiad (99.69 percentile) while in Grade 3, International Ranks 27 and 49 in Cyber and Informatics Olympiads, and zonal (state) top-5 ranks. I also secured 1st position in class in multiple Olympiad-level competitions, demonstrating consistent academic excellence. I have attached a few of my certificates below.

As previously mentioned, I have participated in the IBM Qiskit Fall Fest 2025 and my team emerged as the winner of the IBM Qiskit hackathon conducted during TechnoVIT 2025.

Career Goal

My long-term career goal is to work at the intersection of quantum technology and operating system design, where foundational computing meets next-generation physics. I aim to leverage advances in quantum computing to architect operating systems that can efficiently manage hybrid classical–quantum resources, abstract complex hardware, and make quantum capabilities accessible, scalable, and reliable. By combining low-level systems thinking with emerging quantum paradigms, I aspire to contribute to the creation of robust, secure, and performance-oriented platforms that redefine how computation is orchestrated in the post-classical era.

In order to achieve this, I am willing to learning Quantum Cryptography and Edge-Computing to better my knowledge about the realm of quantum, while trying to commit meaningful additions to the Linux Kernel if possible.

Contact and Professional Links

To reach out to me, feel free to contact me via my phone number or email address.

Email: sugeeth2007@gmail.com
Phone: +91 8122654796

If you'd love to connect with me on social media platforms; feel free to do so.

Linkedin

SugeethJSA - Overview

sugeeth_jayaraj

To view my latest portfolio, visit: 

Sugeeth Jayaraj Samala Augustine

Thank you for taking the time to read through this!Thank you for taking the time to read through this!

← To view my full blog, click here← To view my full blog, click here

Dakshina Chitra: The Tapestry of South India

March 03, 2026
10:17 AM

Dakshina Chitra calls itself the "Living Museum", which is intriguing to think about it, but it masks a far deeper meaning under the guise of a simple phrase. 

Think of it this way. Our cities develop over time, our villages turn into towns. Over the course of history, humans have always searched for sophistication and modernization. In the process, we tend to leave old traditions.

Dakshina Chithra aims to resolve that by looking to the past for inspiration to rebuild history and explain it to the modern world. It was established by the Madras Craft Foundation to retain association with history.

The living museum exhibits its artifacts not behind a glass wall, but a living and breathing heritage space; filled with recreations of old houses, temples, sculptures as well as the entire space.

The guiding philosophy of DakshinaChitra is simple yet powerful. It aims  to preserve traditional architecture and crafts, educate future generations about cultural heritage; while providing artisans with a platform to sustain their livelihoods and creating an interactive cultural learning environment.

The heritage sites contain relics and recreated spaces from Tamil Nadu, Kerela, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh.

As a visitor, we can go through the chettinad, bramin and other houses of people living to different social classes; to explore the difference between the different and varied walks of life that co-existed in the time period. Some houses also contain mini-exhibitions of histories that explore through the various ages of the development of the culture, as well as ancient artifacts that our ancestors used in their daily lives.

Dakshina Chitra is also known for it's live craft demonstrations and shopping centres to give artisans a good shot at a decent livelihood, while also keeping culture and tradition alive. These include pottery and terracotta sculptures; which showcases skill while handling clay; and the careful considerations required to sculpt beautiful objects.

It also includes kamalkari painting, tanjore painting, and palm leaf craft. The place also presents shows at set times; which include stories showcaing the rich tapestry, folk dances and workshops to help the young generation experience the rich history and tradition.

By preserving both tangible heritage and intangible heritage, Dakshina Chitra contributes significantly to the cultural continuity of South India. It retains the pride while showcasing the rich cultural heritage of South India.

My Lady Jane: The Ultimate Young Adult Fictional Novel - A Book Review

Bibliographical Information

Hand, Cynthia; Ashton, Brodi; Meadows, Jodi. My Lady Jane.
First published by HarperTeen of HarperCollins Publishers
Year of Publication: 2016
Genre: Historical Fantasy and Young Adult Fiction
Language: English
Number of Pages: Approximately 491 pages
(printed number of pages may vary with different font sizes)

Introduction

My Lady Jane is coming-of-the-age novel by Cynthia Hand, Brodi Ashton and Jodi Meadows that takes the reader down the lane of an alternate history of 16th century England, where magic thrived and discord between ordinary humans called the Verities and the Edians formed the bedrock of the entire story. It explores the lives of mere teens and young adults belonging to the ruling class of England, exploring the world while politics endanger the trajectory of the kingdom. I personally chose to take this story up because it deeply resonated with me about the tumultuous choices that young adults make every day. 

Brief Summary

The story revolves around two cousins; King Edward and Lady Jane; whose lives were set into turmoil by the evil mastermind duke Lord Dudley in his desire to usurp the throne by the means of a proxy and a twisted succession plan. While Lord Dudley tried to carry out his plans, on the other side of the coin, England laced with tension as divided groups fought amongst themselves to claw power and superiority. One such longstanding tension is the conflicts between the Verity and the Edians. Edians are humans who can turn into animals, and were clearly hated by the verity.

At the start of the story, it was revealed that the King Edward was sick due to the affliction, and might die soon. In an act of careful calculation and at the persuasion of his counsel Lord Dudley, King Edward chooses to make his cousin Lady Jane marry Gifford Dudley and transfer the crown to her after his death; to keep the Edians and the Verities safe. As Lady Jane was forced to marry Gifford at her protest, King Edward led her up the aisle. Gifford, however, turned out to be an Edian who was forced to spend the daytime as a horse.

As political conspiracies develop within the royal court, King Edward was forced to flee after he discovered that he was being poisoned. Jane was forced to take up the mantle of Queen under the presumption that Edward was dead. Throughout the story, the characters face turmoil and deadly decisions at every turn, forcing them to rise to occasion and make the right choices to ultimately restore political stability in the kingdom and ensure the kingdom remains safe for the Verities. At the same time, help from the most unexpected places like the French, the proverbial Edian "Pack" and a good dash of loyalty helped the story reach the ending that it deserved.

Thematic and Conceptual Analysis

My Lady Jane deals with the interesting theme of "growing up". In today's modern world, most children have the benefit of enjoying modern amenities and could afford to experience childhood to best of their abilities. However, other children are forced to grow up due to traumatic experience. In the story, the most important theme, that is subtly weaved into the fabric of the story, is the fact that people can develop into skillful individuals when the occasion calls for it. Lady Jane, for example, a bookworm who was uninterested in people evolved into a person capable of making difficult decisions and stand up for the right reasons. The King Edward, realizes through the entire experience that though the throne was thrust upon him by the virtue of tradition and bloodline, that the throne deserves a person who is much more capable of making the right decisions, handing over the throne to his sister Queen Elizabeth I in the end. Gifford, who was irresponsible in his formative years and unable to control his Edian transformation, enables himself via his love for his wife to control his transformation as well as learn skills and express loyalty for the betterment of the kingdom.

Another major theme that revolves and decides the fate of this story is the weight of politics intertwined with the delicate lives of humans, forcing people to experience hatred or favour that is orchestrated by conspiracies at the highest levels. By altering history, the narrator forces the reader to contemplate about the consequences of events and action, that might seem minor but end up having historic consequences. The fact that the writers chose to allow Lady Jane Grey to discover her Edian abilities and thus escape persecution, goes a long way to help King Edward rally support and depose Queen Mary from the throne. This also helps support the Edian cause and lifts them up from the trauma of social discrimination.

While these major themes are at play throughout the story, minor interactions like humour, playful narrations, gripes and concerns of the socially discriminated play a major role in turning the story around and make it meaningful and resonant with the audience.

Conceptually speaking, the story enhances the audience's perspective by providing an alternate historical narrative, providing them with the tools to analyse and dissect thoughts and storylines; politics and will. It helps them to expand their knowledge and allows them to gain perspective to an otherwise dull run-of-the-mill plotline.

 It showcase social divide too. Apart from the overtly symbolic divide between the Edians and Verities, which allude to the religious divide between the protestants and catholics prevalent at the time; it also showcases gender bias, power disparity and income disparity, which is still prevalent even till this day. Social rules in the book made a lot of interactions awkward, as seen in most of the initial set of interactions between Jane and Gifford.

The whole book can be stated as a call to action, to wake up and rise to the occasion, embedded in a beautiful tapestry of intertwining storylines and grand strategy; to defy stereotypes and prejudice

Personal Reflection

While reading My Lady Jane, I was surprised by how effectively it resonated with my thoughts. I felt that the book called out to me personally and helped me shape and effect my thoughts into the best possible course of action. It showcased that every human, even the best and supposedly great, are not sure of they need to do at a particular given time.

It was literally so engaging that I was reading the book while I was riding on the bus, standing in the bus even without a seat but with a book in my hand; poring over the details.

The entire book resonated with me and removed the stigmatization of gender roles in my mind. In today's society, we see flagrant stigmatization of gender roles, so much so that it was embedded into our minds and continues to guide us today. This book, and my recent IV with my classmates to Dakshina Chitra helped me to break out of that cycle completely and treat everyone as normal friends.

The book told me that even the worst situations can handled properly and turned to our advantage with a calm and cool mind, and strategic planning. The fact that the main character Lady Jane was able to defy set stereotypes and  effectively helped the people in any way that she could, was a eyeopener.  It resonated with me, and helped me to conduct the Area Conclave F4 F5 of Toastmasters with such vigour and humour on Sunday. I was intinctively drawn to use humour in the context of the presentation, and got approvals done on the same day with a cool head and on-spot thinking. I was appreciated by the District Director 120 and the area directors for my contributions in the events.

And yes, here's the bit where I had sprinkled humour onto the presentation, and turned it into a memorable moment for all Toastmasters who participated in the conclave.

📎 Joke segment.pdf

Critical Evaluation

To understand why the writing style is as it is, we must take a look at the history of the Cynthia Hand. Cynthia Hand is an American novelist and creative writing professor who is best known for writing young adult fantasy and historical fiction like My Lady Jane.

Most of her works involve mixing real life scenarios with history and fantasy, with strong female protagonists as the driving force for work that she does. It helps people on both sides of a conflict, or a situation, or opposite genders, to understand people and turn them into meaningful interactions and lead to ultimate unification of both sides. In the story too, the social discrimination and the persecution that Edians face, as well as the grief that some Edians cause to the Verities is beautifully and thematically potrayed to showcase that both sides are partially reponsible for the prejudice against them, however the actions of one is taken to be the action of many. 

The three authors' writing style is marked by clarity and perspective. The narrative provides beautiful insights into the thought process of Edward, Gifford, and Jane; allowing us to empathize with their thoughts. The story's greatest strength lies in the fact that it does not hide uncertainty and fear that they have about each other, but rather boldly reveals them. This helps them to bond over the most uncertain of circumstances that were never visible before the harsh situation. The simple, yet clear language helped to drive the book home.

Conclusion and Recommendation

In the end, My Lady Jane is a deep, thought-provoking and slightly humourous novels that tries to relate the stories of the age of kings and queens to the modern society and development. It tells us that history, tradition, betrayal and misery need not hold us back; and that our loyalty, dedication, bravery and honesty will help us lead great lives and help us reach the right goals. 

This story I would strongly recommend this book to students who study politics and literature, as it brings creative expression with "kingly qualities" and a penchant to question the status quo, to the table.

Favourite line from the text: "History, after all, is only what someone writes down."

It is we who create history, and we who decide on the direction of history, and we as humans decide what to record and what to write down.

My own line: The worst situations can take a turn for the better by just keeping your cool and empathizing with others.

My Work Side

Here I am to create another blog post, and in this blog, we'll be focussing on my more professional aspects.

Document

Sugeeth @ Work

Document

Dakshina Chitra: The Tapestry of South India

Document

My Lady Jane: The Ultimate Young Adult Fictional Novel - A Book Review

Naming Scheme

Naming Scheme is a part of my shortcut that deals with the creation and management of custom naming schemes for files. 

The current configuration of the shortcut is such that it constructs a name for a file with the help of parts. The part could be chosen from a pre-configured list or a text prompt; set up specifically during setup of naming scheme. 

In naming scheme, the shortcut is first designed to set up lists, and then it is designed to set up text prompts asking for user input. Order of lists and prompts are as configured during set-up, and once configured, the order can not be changed. 

The API is meant to be verbose, and it aligns with the Spring API philosophy. The philosophy will be published once I have the kinks straightened out, and only if I have time.

Reset / Setup API

To invoke this API, pass on this dictionary to the shortcut.

{

  "Target Name":"Spring PDF Tools"

  "Invoke":"Naming Scheme",

  "Run":"Setup",

}

This will run setup using the inbuilt naming scheme module. The setup will only save the person's preferences after all input is completed; thus if invoked by accident during the reset process, it can be cancelled and original configuration files will still remain intact.

General Run

{

  "Target Name":"Spring PDF Tools"

  "Invoke":"Naming Scheme",

  "Run":"General",

}

The general run of naming scheme module will request user input. In the current version of the shortcut, it can only pass back the name to the mother shortcut when the user presses the "Set File Name" option. The output is a dictionary targeting "Spring UI" (regard Spring UI as a filler, it kinda has no value. ).

Make PNG Images from PDF

This option will make the shortcut split any PDF into PNG images. There are multiple options available at the time of image generation.

Why PNG Images?

PNG images conserve as much raw data as possible, support transparent backgrounds and is generally a much less daunting task to accomplish.

Though we could force the image to render in JPEG, the result will be a lossy file which would have undergone huge processing in the CPU.

Configurations Available 

Optimise File Size

You can choose to reduce the size of the PDF before it gets passed on to the renderer, so that the splitting PDF into COM Object Pages will not hog up CPU Space.

Size of output Image (aka Downsize PDF)

Generally, when PDF pages are converted into PNG images, the renderer renders the images at highest possible image resolution that the CPU can support. However, that would slow down shortcut execution.

So, it has been decided early on to give users the option to select their image height from a given list of image resolutions or render it at native resolution.

Stability is key while creating shortcuts, and this is one of the double-edged sword decisions that a Creator would have to take.

Share list

This share list that is presented after image generation gives a handy list of well-thought out options.

Add them to Photos Library

A lot of us generically like every photo to be at an arm’s reach… (let’s accept the fact that our Photos Library has become that junk yard of sorts.)

Select and Add them to Photos

Sometimes you’d just like to get a few pages of the PDF saved… so here’s the option to do just that!

Save to Files

Well, for the more organised people, you could definitely save the photos to a folder in the Files app.

Zip the photos into a file

A great win for portability, as it allows us to easily transfer the photos in a concise manner.

Share

For those other needs, such as sharing on social media, or to other storage apps, etc…

Make PDF

This is not your normal PDF creator tool, this one contains two modules:-

Make Readable PDF

This module aims to make a PDF with the given input, ensuring that selectable text can remain selectable even in the output.

Make Unreadable PDF
This module aims to make a PDF with the given input, turning selectable text into non-selectable modules. You can set the quality of each page, because each page is turned into an image before turning it back into a single PDF.

Create PDF from Master ZIP

PREREQUISITE: Create a zip file containing the other zip files before passing it to the shortcut. Only then the above option would work.

Pretty useful when you want to automate the making of a single PDF from a combination of ZIP files. This is a pretty niche use case.

This tool literally unzips the master zip → the unzips the zip inside each → then combines the object inside each zip file into a single PDF → Combine the different PDFs into one PDF

The tool maintains the order of the objects according to name:
E.g.: the zip of master zip file starting with A will be first; and in that, the object starting with A will be first.

Update History

Version 1.1

Hotfix for Version 1 (Released on January 02, 2025)
Reference: SID 2024-01-0201 (bug-fix)

An error was found within the setup part of Naming Scheme module where it could not save dictionaries in the intended format. This error was caused due to a change in the way Apple Shortcuts' Set Dictionary Action parses requests.

It has been a standard method to set a value for a sub-dictionary within a dictionary by the use of "xxx.yyy" where xxx is the main dictionary's key that references the sub-dictionary; and yyy is the sub-dictionary's key where a value could be saved. 

However, in iOS 18, using the "." separator was not parsed in the above expected method. Instead of recognizing the regex value, shortcuts did not parse the "Key" part as regex anymore. Thus it ended up confusing the logic of the loop at multiple places in the shortcut. Thus, there was a slight overhaul of the setup module's list loop and text input prompt loop.

Version 1

Initial release of Spring PDF Tools
Released on January 02, 2025

The initial release of the shortcut. The shortcut was released with the following tools:

Naming Scheme (Modular)

Make PNG Images from PDF

Make PDF: Readable or Unreadable

Create PDF from a master ZIP file

Spring PDF Tools

Document Version 1
Compatible with Version 1 of the Shortcut…
API Version 1

This page is a documentation page for Spring PDF Tools, a shortcut that I created a while ago when I wanted to work with PDFs.

A lot of shortcuts claim to solve a single PDF problem, but overtime they get lost in our shortcuts library. Some of them are custom built, while others are somewhat generic. Either way, I prefer such tools as they’re mostly offline tools with on-device processing.

This shortcut combines some useful tools that I thought would help everyone out!

Official Download Link

Just a moment...

SWING UPDATER is a shortcut that checks for updates using complex mechanisms. In order to check for updates from within Spring PDF Tools' main menu, download it from here:

Just a moment...

Alternatively, if you use another shortcut updater of your choice, manually register this shortcut with that updater. Important info:

Module: RoutineHub
RH ID: 21134

Limitations of this shortcut: As with all Apple shortcuts, this shortcut loads all objects and manipulations into memory. So if you do use this shortcut, please keep in mind that currently it can not handle more than a 100 images/objects or more than a 400 MB PDF.

Tools included

Document

Naming Scheme

Document

Make PNG Images from PDF

Document

Make PDF

Document

Create PDF from Master ZIP

Other Stuff

Document

Update History

→ Wanna see more about me?

      Then click on the link above!

©️ Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. 2025 
All rights reserved.

📈 Version History

Spring Lock

Released by Sugeeth - Versions 5.2+

🌐 Version 5.3 (Stable)

Badge:  Stable

Key Change: Icon Pack was updated.

Bug Fixes:

The "updater" has been updated to mitigate the multiple decimal points error. (supports two decimal points now) (SID Bug 2023-10-1239)

A setup screen was missing, it has now been fixed. (SID Bug 2023-10-1240)

🌐 Version 5.2.1 (Stable)

Badge:  Bug Fixes Only, Stable

Bug Fixes:

Fixed a bug where config files might not save to iCloud on iOS 15. (SID Bug 2023-10-0124)

Fixed a few images.

Fixed several bugs in the admin settings section. (SID Bug 2023-10-0125, SID Bug 2023-10-0126)

Fixed a bug in the CryptoEngine, where an attacker could bypass the OAuth screen using a specially crafted malicious password, triggering a buffer error and bypassing the 2nd-step verification process. (SID Bug 2021-09-0123)

Updated the changelog section.

Important Note:

⚠️ Your data might be lost/reset due to the fix applied for SID Bug 2023-10-0124.

🌐 Version 5.2 (Stable)

Badge:  Stable

Key Changes:

Rebranding: HSAG AppLock is now rebranded as "Spring Lock," an open-sourced app lock focused on quick app security.

Updated Main Menu UI: The user interface of the Main Menu has received an update for improved usability.

Removal of HSAG References: Ongoing process to eliminate all references to HSAG; this may take some time.

Centralized Resources:

Established a centralized icon pack.

Created a central dictionary for commonly used variables.

Code Optimization: Reduced the codebase by more than 100 actions.

Compatibility: Supports iOS 15 and above, iPadOS 15 and above, and macOS Monterey and above.

Warning:

This is a minor update.

Note that data migration is not supported; users may need to start fresh.

HSAG AppLock

Released by HSAG - Versions 2 to 5.

All versions below were released under HSAG.

There was a Version 6 planned for HSAG AppLock, which was ultimately scrapped since the company HSAG closed. All assets were transferred to the last owner of HSAG, Sugeeth Jayaraj Samala Augustine (original developer).

🌐 Version 5 (Stable/Last)

Badge:  🔐 Last Stable Version of HSAG AppLock

Important Reminder for Updating Users:

Do not delete the old version until instructed by the new version.

The new version will not recognise old passwords due to changes in the system directory.

Major Update Features:

Introduction of HSAG AppLock Version 5 with a completely redesigned UI. Enhanced user experience with the new HSAG UI.

Redesigned Security Log for improved tracking and management.

Integration with Reminders has been removed, and now an inbuilt system manages security logs.

HSAG Ultimate Updater (Embed) now replaces the Swing Updater.

Added new instructional videos for user guidance.

Numerous background updates, including various bug fixes.

🌐 Version 4.2 (Stable)

Badge:  🔐 Stable

Key Changes:

Resolved major 🪦 security flaws present in Version 4.1.

Improved user authentication mechanisms.

Enhanced UI with additional customization options.

Introduced ♻️ redundant protection mechanisms for added security.

🔫 Version 4.1 (Unstable)

Key Changes:

Rewritten security system using HSAG Crypto Engine (Beta).

Major flaws rendered this version unstable.

Served as a foundation for subsequent improvements.

👽 Version 3 (Vulnerable)

Key Changes:

Introduced HSAG Core Security Feature Engine (Discontinued).

Added ⚙️ Settings menu and reset functionality.

Discovered and exploited vulnerabilities led to unauthorized access issues.

💥 Version 2.1 (Stable)

Key Changes:

Redesigned user interface with HSAG UI 2.

Added ℹ️ About and Support options.

Resolved continuous loop issue from Version 1, making this the first stable release.

⚠ Version 1 (Vulnerable)

Key Changes:

Initial release with numerous bugs.

Continuous loop issue rendered it nearly unusable.

That's all!

🔧 How It Works

Configuration Check:

Checks for existing configuration files during initialization.

Verifies file integrity using MD5 hashing, ensuring the absence of tampering.

Main Menu:

If no configuration files are found, the shortcut enters setup mode automatically.

Provides users with options for setup or login to an admin account.

Setup Process:

Configures admin credentials during the first user setup, securing privileged access rights.

Encrypted guest accounts are created automatically with random passwords for added flexibility.

Login Process:

Displays a list of users, including guest accounts.

Admin accounts offer enhanced options for managing the shortcut and performing advanced tasks.

Security Mechanisms:

Unauthorized access attempts trigger 📸 photo capture to log breaches.

Logs all actions to the security log for comprehensive admin review, keeping a detailed record of activity.

🧪 Internal Mechanisms

File Storage:

Stores configuration files in the "Shortcuts" system folder.

Files are hidden using a ‘.’ prefix to prevent accidental deletion, safeguarding critical data from exposure.

CryptoEngine:

Forked from Stanford's Java CryptoLibrary for robust encryption.

Provides lightweight 🌍 encryption for passwords and sensitive data, offering a secure foundation for all operations.

Resilience:

Automatically restores unauthorised file changes to maintain integrity.

Resumes interrupted setup processes without data loss, ensuring continuity and user convenience.

Extra Tidbits!

HSAG AppLock Promo Video

HSAG AppLock - Introducing Version 5

Rich Text Pages

Version History Code

You can find this within the shortcut too, but it may have been tweaked over time to reflect the necessary updates.

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en">

<head>

    <meta charset="UTF-8">

    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=no">

    <title>Welcome to Name's Version History!</title>

    <style>

        body {

            margin: 0;

            padding: 30px 25px 30px 30px;

            background: #ffffff;

            color: black;

            font-family: 'montserrat', sans-serif;

            font-weight: 700;

            letter-spacing: 0.025em;

            height: 100vh;

        }

 

        h1, h2, h3, p, ul, li, .um, .done, .lastp, .badge {

            margin: 0;

            padding: 0;

        }

 

        h1 {

            font-size: 40px;

            font-weight: 800;

        }

 

        h2 {

            margin-top: 15px;

            margin-bottom: 20px;

            font-size: 30px;

            font-weight: 700;

        }

 

        h3 {

            margin-top: 25px;

            margin-bottom: 4px;

            font-size: 20px;

            font-weight: 600;

            position: relative;

        }

 

        .head {

            padding: 5px;

        }

 

        .badge {

            padding: 5px;

            color: #ffffff;

            border-radius: 5px;

            font-size: 10px;

            margin-top: 5px;

            font-weight: bold;

        }

 

        .update {

            background-color: #4CAF50;

        }

 

        .bug {

            background-color: #e47200;

        }

        

        .royal {

            background-color: #A020F0;

        }

 

        .blue {

            background-color: #0000FF;

        }

 

        .fail {

            background-color: #FF0000;

        }

 

        p {

            margin-top: 20px;

            font-weight: 300;

            color: black;

        }

 

        i {

	    font-weight: 300;

	}

 

        ul {

            padding: 5px;

            margin-top: 7px;

            margin-left: 30px;

            font-weight: 300;

        }

 

        li {

            padding-bottom: 5px;

        }

 

        .um {

            color: #e5bd00;

        }

 

        .done {

            font-weight: bold;

            color: #0A84FF;

        }

 

        .lastp {

            padding: 40px 0px 40px 0px;

        }

 

        .wepline {

            margin-top: 40px;

            Font-family: system-UI;

        }

 

        @media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {

            body {

                background: linear-gradient(to center, #000, #333);

            }

 

            p {

                color: #f1f1f1;

            }

        }

    </style>

</head>

<body>

    <h1>👋🏻 Hi!</h1>

    <h2>Welcome to <span class="um">Name</span>'s Version History!</h2>

 

    <p class="wepline" >First of all, <strong>thanks for taking care to view the history of  <I> <strong> Name</strong></I></strong>! Hope you will like it!</p>

 

    <h3> Version 5.3: </h3> 

    <span class="badge blue update">Current</span>

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge bug">Bug fix</span> <br>

    

    <ul> 

	<li> Icons have been updated throughout the shortcut. </li> 

	<li> 

		Bug fix: The "updater" has been updated to mitigate the multiple decimal points error. (supports two decimal points now) 

		<br> <span class="badge bug">SID Bug 2023-10-1239</span> 

	</li>

	<li> 

		Bug fix: A setup screen was missing, it has now been fixed.

		<br> <span class="badge bug">SID Bug 2023-10-1240</span> 

	</li> 

    </ul>

    <i> Released in October 2023. </i>

 

    <h3> Version 5.2.1:     </h3>

    <span class="badge blue update">Current</span>

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge bug">Critical Bug fix</span> <br>

    <ul> 

        <li>Fixes a bug where the config files might not save to iCloud as a file on iOS 15. <br>

            <span class="badge bug">SID Bug 2023-10-0124</span> 

            <span class="badge fail">⚠️ Loss of Data</span>

        </li>

        <li> Fixes a few images </li>

	<li> Fixes a few bugs in the admin settings section. 

            <br> <span class="badge bug">SID Bug 2023-10-0125</span> 

		 <span class="badge bug">SID Bug 2023-10-0126</span> 

	</li>

	<li> Fixes a bug in the CryptoEngine where an attacker might be able to bypass the OAuth screen using a specially crafted malicious password, which would trigger a buffer error; but bypasses the 2nd-step verification process.

	    <br> <span class="badge bug"> SID Bug 2021-09-0123 </span>

	</li>

	<li> Updates the changelog section </li>

    </ul>

 

    <h3> Version 5.2: 

    </h3>

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge fail">Unstable</span>

    <br>

    <ul>

        <li>Icons are being replaced.</li>

        <li>HSAG AppLock has been renamed Spring Lock.</li>

        <li>Code refresh: 102 actions have been purged.</li>

        <li>Centralized a few assets.</li>

    </ul>

 

<h3> Version 5 :- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge royal">Feature Update</span> <br>

<ul>

    <li>Rewritten User Interface - The new improved HSAG UI 3 has taken effect! Custom-made icons with the best stand-out tech has made this possible!</li>

    <li>Profile Pics for each user!</li>

    <li>The Swing Updater has been replaced with HSAG Ultimate Updater.</li>

    <li>Redesigned Security Alert System!</li>

    <li>A new Credits and Version History section!</li>

</ul>

 

<h3> Version 4.2 :- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge bug">Critical Bug fix</span> <br>

<ul>

    <li>Rewritten Security System - The HSAG Crypto Engine took effect. It is the third version of the HSAG Encryption System.</li>

    <li>A new home for Settings and Updates section only visible to the Master User!</li>

    <li>The shortcut had become RISC-based, with only necessary components loading upon startup. Faster Load times for the end user!</li>

    <li>A new first-time user's welcome and bye message for last-time users!</li>

</ul>

 

<h3> Version 4.1:- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge fail">Unstable</span> <br>

<ul>

    <li>Rewritten Security System - The HSAG Crypto Engine (beta) took effect. It is the third version of the HSAG Encryption System.</li>

    <li>(This version was a failure. It was buggy and did not work properly, though it laid the foundation for Version 4.2.)</li>

</ul>

 

<h3> Version 3:- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge fail">Vulnerable</span> <br>

<ul>

    <li>Rewritten Security System - The HSAG Core Security Feature Engine (discontinued) took effect. It was the second version of the HSAG Encryption System.</li>

    <li>A new reset functionality.</li>

    <li>A new Settings menu.</li>

    <li>A less tedious set-up process for the end-user.</li>

    <li>This version also ended up as a failure when a bug was discovered and exploited by @SpaceNeb with the Hound. This led to unauthorized discovery of the user's passwords, which was addressed in Versions 4.1 and 4.2.</li>

</ul>

 

<h3> Version 2.1 :- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge bug">Critical Bug fix</span> <br>

<ul>

    <li>Rewritten User Interface - The HSAG UI 2 took effect. It made the shortcut more user-friendly.</li>

    <li>A new 'About the Shortcut' and 'Get Support!' options.</li>

    <li>This was the first stable release of the shortcut because of Version 1's failed continuous loop strategy.</li>

</ul>

 

<h3> Version 1:- </h3> 

    <span class="badge update">Update</span>

    <span class="badge fail">Vulnerable</span> <br>

<p>Basically, this was the first version of this shortcut, which was pretty buggy when considering that it 🔁 looped itself. Solved in version 2.1.</p>

 

    <p class="lastp">When finished, tap <span class="done">Done</span>.</p>

</body>

</html>

🌟 Spring Lock Comprehensive Documentation

Document Version 1
Compatible with Version 5.3 of the Shortcut…
No APIs are available, shortcut is monolithic.

📊 Overview

Spring Lock is the evolved successor to HSAG AppLock, offering a 🔒 robust, 🙏 secure, and 😎 user-friendly experience to lock 🌐 apps and protect 🔐 sensitive data on 🍏 iOS, 🥏 iPadOS, and 🎨 macOS devices. With its integration of state-of-the-art 🔐 encryption tools and 📱 system automations, this shortcut guarantees unmatched 🔒 security and flexibility for all users.

Compatibility

Compatible with iOS 15+, iPadOS 15+, and macOS Monterey+.

📃 Short Description

Spring Lock employs system automation to lock 🔒 applications securely. 🛡️ Passwords are encrypted with CryptoKit, ensuring they cannot be easily 🔍 accessed from configuration files. This shortcut even allows users to lock the Shortcuts app itself, catering to those concerned about 🧨 unauthorized access or deletion of automations. It combines ease of use with a sophisticated 🔐 framework to deliver a smooth and hassle-free experience.


🛡️ Privacy Access 🛡️

The developer, Sugeeth Jayaraj Samala Augustine, has declared that the shortcut Spring Lock requires access to the following features with reasons:-

Shortcuts Data Folder

To store configuration data.

Anonymous download access to Google Drive (via Safari WebKit)

To fetch the guidance video for set-up of the Spring Lock (optional)

Front Camera Access

To take photos of unauthorised people trying to login to the protected app, but entered the wrong password.

Shortcuts App Launch Automation

To protect the app upon launch, otherwise shortcut won’t work.

Run another shortcut

To return to the main menu of Spring Lock by invoking itself again.

Delete files

To delete configuration data upon request from the Admin User

Show Notifications during Shortcut Run

To keep users informed of relevant updates during the execution of the shortcut, this shortcut prioritises providing notifications instead of relying on “Show Alerts” that require user intervention; whenever feasible.

You can safely ignore other requests for access. If you feel this declaration is outdated, leave a feedback on this block and the developer will notice it.

🔧 Key Features

🔰 User Interface

🚀 Intuitive UI: Designed with usability in mind, leveraging HSAG UI 4 for an aesthetically pleasing and smooth 🎨 user experience. Its modern 🖌️ design makes navigation easy for all levels of users.

🔐 Security

⚡ Encryption: Passwords and sensitive data are secured using CryptoEngine, a lightweight fork of Stanford's Java CryptoLibrary integrated with CryptoKit. This ensures that 🔑 keys remain protected from tampering or unauthorized access.

🔒 Two-Factor Authentication: Requires both a 🔑 PIN and 🔑 password for access, adding an extra layer of 🛡️ security.

❓ Tamper Detection: Uses MD5 hashing to ensure configuration files are not tampered with. This proactive measure automatically restores unauthorized changes.

📸 Intruder Alerts: Captures a 📸 photo of unauthorized users upon failed login attempts without accessing the Photos library. It securely logs this photo for admin review.

🔁 Flexibility

🗑️ Reset Capability: Includes an option to reset settings and start fresh whenever required.

🎨 Customizability: Allows users to tailor the experience with options in the ⚙️ Settings menu, making it versatile for different needs.

👥 Guest Accounts: Pre-configured with 🔐 encrypted passwords for unused accounts, which can only be activated and customized by the admin.

📡 Offline Functionality: Operates without internet access, ensuring 🔐 data security and reliability.

🚙 Maintenance

💩 Cleanup Functionality: Users can delete files generated by the shortcut safely, keeping their devices clutter-free.

🌍 Built-in Updater: Employs HSAG Ultimate Updater (Embed) to manually check and apply updates efficiently.

🕵️ Setup Process

🔑 Two-Step Setup:

Initial installation setup configures core security features.

Activation of login credentials system finalizes the setup for secure access.

If setup is skipped, the shortcut becomes unusable to prevent security vulnerabilities, ensuring that users must complete the process for optimal performance.

❄️ Offline Functionality

Operates independently of internet connectivity, making it a perfect choice for  offline users while safeguarding sensitive information.

🌐 Miscellaneous

⚔️ Security Log: Tracks user activities and is accessible only to admins for reviewing any potential breaches.

📞 Support and About: Embedded guide 🎥 video, support options, and information menu for ease of use.

Document

📈 Version History

Document

🔧 How It Works

🔝 Future Plans

Only if I have time…

Optimize the "About this Shortcut" menu to reduce the number of actions significantly.

Refactor redundant code and streamline internal processes for improved performance.

Update the embedded updater for enhanced functionality and usability.

Implement additional security measures to address emerging threats and vulnerabilities effectively.

📢 Feedback and Acknowledgments

Your feedback is invaluable in improving Spring Lock. Over the years, we have reduced unnecessary actions and enhanced usability. However, there's still room for optimization. Please share your thoughts to help us create a better product.

Special thanks to:

@Schl3ck for CryptoKit, a cornerstone of Spring Lock's encryption.

@SpaceNeb for identifying critical vulnerabilities in Version 3, enabling us to improve security features.

HSAG (Defunct) for the Icon Pack UI 4, which continues to enrich the user interface experience.

🔔 Final Notes

Spring Lock is designed to provide unparalleled app-locking 🔒 security while maintaining ease of use. With continuous improvements and community support, it aims to remain a reliable tool for all users. Whether you're looking for robust 🔐 protection or seamless usability, Spring Lock is your go-to solution for app-locking needs.

Document

Extra Tidbits!

Spring Updater

This is the planned successor to Ultimate Updater. This is just a draft.

Dyna-pages

Update list page

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en">

<head>

    <meta charset="UTF-8">

    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">

    <title>Shortcuts Updates</title>

    <style>

        body {

            font-family: Arial, sans-serif;

            display: flex;

            flex-wrap: wrap;

            justify-content: space-around;

            padding: 20px;

        }

        .box {

            width: 240px;

            height: 80px;

            margin: 10px;

            display: flex;

            align-items: center;

            cursor: pointer;

            border-radius: 10px;

            overflow: hidden;

            position: relative;

            border: 1px solid #ddd;

        }

        .icon {

            width: 60px;

            height: 60px;

            border-radius: 10px;

            margin-right: 10px;

            padding-left: 10px; /* Added padding to the left side */

        }

        .icon img {

            width: 100%;

            height: 100%;

            border-radius: 10px;

        }

        .info {

            flex: 1;

            display: flex;

            flex-direction: column;

        }

        .name,

        .update-rollback,

        .caption {

            font-size: 14px;

            white-space: nowrap;

            overflow: hidden;

            text-overflow: ellipsis;

        }

        .name {

            font-weight: bold;

        }

    </style>

</head>

<body>

 

<script>

    // Replace this dictionary with your actual data

    const shortcutsData = [

        { name: 'Shortcut 1', icon: 'data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KG...', url: 'https://example.com/shortcut1', version: 'v1.0', updateRollback: 'Update' },

        { name: 'Shortcut 2', icon: 'data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KG...', url: 'https://example.com/shortcut2', version: 'v2.1', updateRollback: 'Rollback' },

        // Add more shortcut entries as needed

    ];

 

    // Function to generate a color based on the icon

    function generateColor(icon) {

        // Placeholder function for color generation based on the icon

        return 'hsl(0, 0%, 80%)';

    }

 

    // Function to determine text color based on background color brightness

    function determineTextColor(backgroundColor) {

        // Placeholder function for determining text color based on background brightness

        return 'black';

    }

 

    // Function to generate boxes with additional elements

    function generateBoxes() {

        const container = document.body;

 

        shortcutsData.forEach(shortcut => {

            const box = document.createElement('div');

            box.className = 'box';

            const bgColor = generateColor(shortcut.icon);

            box.style.backgroundColor = bgColor;

            const textColor = determineTextColor(bgColor);

 

            // Icon

            const icon = document.createElement('div');

            icon.className = 'icon';

            icon.style.backgroundImage = `url(${shortcut.icon})`;

            const iconImage = document.createElement('img');

            iconImage.src = shortcut.icon;

            icon.appendChild(iconImage);

 

            // Information container

            const info = document.createElement('div');

            info.className = 'info';

 

            // Name

            const name = document.createElement('div');

            name.className = 'name';

            name.textContent = shortcut.name;

            name.style.color = textColor;

 

            // Update/Rollback text

            const updateRollback = document.createElement('div');

            updateRollback.className = 'update-rollback';

            updateRollback.textContent = shortcut.updateRollback;

            updateRollback.style.color = textColor;

 

            // Caption

            const caption = document.createElement('div');

            caption.className = 'caption';

            caption.textContent = `Version: ${shortcut.version}`;

            caption.style.color = textColor;

 

            // Add click event to open the URL

            box.addEventListener('click', () => {

                window.location.href = shortcut.url;

            });

 

            // Append elements to the information container

            info.appendChild(name);

            info.appendChild(updateRollback);

            info.appendChild(caption);

 

            // Append elements to the box

            box.appendChild(icon);

            box.appendChild(info);

 

            container.appendChild(box);

        });

    }

 

    // Call the function to generate boxes when the page loads

    window.onload = generateBoxes;

</script>

 

</body>

</html>

 

Some tips and tricks for Shortcuts

This is a document of my collection of essential Shortcut tips, tricks and guides.

www.reddit.com

Action Directory – Matthew Cassinelli

Siri Shortcuts Field Guide

Variable types used in Shortcuts on iPhone or iPad

Update codes for apps

The below is a list of my most commonly used Windows apps, and a clear one-shot way to download and install them all.

winget install 9N0DX20HK701 Microsoft.PowerToys Zoom.Zoom Grammarly.Grammarly 9NBDXK71NK08 9NFTCH6J7FHV 9PB2MZ1ZMB1S 9WZDNCRFHWLH 9P0CNR9RWZSX 9PGCV4V3BK4W 9NRWMJP3717K 9WZDNCRFJ0PK 9P9K8RN4TV3H 9PKTQ5699M62 9NRX63209R7B 9P8LTPGCBZXD XPDLPKWG9SW2WD 9NCBCSZSJRSB 9PM46JRSDQQR 9MSPC6MP8FM4 XPFFZHVGQWWLHB 9MZ1SNWT0N5D 9NBLGGH5R558 XP9KHM4BK9FZ7Q 9N8WTRRSQ8F7 9P94LH3Q1CP5 Microsoft.Teams Microsoft.Office Grammarly.Grammarly.Office Musescore.Musescore WinMerge.WinMerge Google.GoogleDrive AntibodySoftware.WizTree Telegram.TelegramDesktop Jabra.Direct Google.NearbyShare --accept-package-agreements --accept-source-agreements

Now I understand that those IDs are frustrating to understand. Here's a description of the IDs… and yes it'll be in a code block too.

9NBDXK71NK08 - WhatsApp Beta

9NRWMJP3717K - Python 3.11

9PGCV4V3BK4W - DevToys

9WZDNCRFJ0PK - DropBox

9P9K8RN4TV3H - Craft by Luki labs

9PKTQ5699M62 - iCloud

9NRX63209R7B - Outlook Preview

9P8LTPGCBZXD - Wintoys

XPDLPKWG9SW2WD - Adobe CC

9NCBCSZSJRSB - Spotify

9PM46JRSDQQR - FluentCast

9MSPC6MP8FM4 - WhiteBoard

XPFFZHVGQWWLHB - OneNote (New)

9MZ1SNWT0N5D - PowerShell 7

9NBLGGH5R558 - Microsoft To Do

XP9KHM4BK9FZ7Q - Visual Studio Code

9N8WTRRSQ8F7 - Diagnostic Data Viewer

9P94LH3Q1CP5 - Adobe Express

I know that's a large list. But wait, there's more! To download the free mobile versions of Office offline apps onto your system, append the following code (or) create a new winget install request.

9WZDNCRD29V9 9WZDNCRFJB9S 9WZDNCRFJB5Q 9WZDNCRFJBH3

The order is Microsoft 365, Word, PPT, Excel. These apps are completely free… however they won't be updated by Microsoft anymore 🥺.

Python stuffiest

To check for the Python/pip packages that haven't been updated yet, do this:

pip --disable-pip-version-check list --outdated --format=json | python -c "import json, sys; print('\s'.join([x['name'] for x in json.load(sys.stdin)]))"  

My homeroom packages are:

anyio argon2-cffi argon2-cffi-bindings arrow asttokens async-lru attrs Babel backcall beautifulsoup4 bleach certifi cffi charset-normalizer colorama comm configparser debtcollector debugpy decorator defusedxml distlib dnspython eventlet executing fasteners fastjsonschema filelock fqdn greenlet idna ipykernel ipython ipython-genutils ipywidgets iso8601 isoduration jedi Jinja2 json5 jsonpointer jsonschema jsonschema-specifications jupyter jupyter_client jupyter-console jupyter_core jupyter-events jupyter-lsp jupyter_server jupyter_server_terminals jupyterlab jupyterlab-pygments jupyterlab_server jupyterlab-widgets MarkupSafe matplotlib-inline mistune msgpack nbclassic nbclient nbconvert nbformat nest-asyncio netaddr netifaces notebook notebook_shim os-win oslo.concurrency oslo.config oslo.context oslo.i18n oslo.log oslo.serialization oslo.utils overrides packaging pandocfilters parso pbr pickleshare pip platformdirs prometheus-client prompt-toolkit psutil pure-eval pycparser Pygments PyMI PyMySQL pyparsing pyrsistent python-dateutil python-json-logger pytz pywin32 pywinpty PyYAML pyzmq qtconsole QtPy referencing requests rfc3339-validator rfc3986 rfc3986-validator rpds-py Send2Trash shutils six sniffio soupsieve stack-data stevedore terminado tinycss2 tornado tqdm traitlets tzdata uri-template urllib3 virtualenv wcwidth webcolors webencodings websocket-client widgetsnbextension WMI wrapt

Other stuffiest 

import os

import shutil

 

# Specify the directory containing the unsorted files

unsorted_directory = 'C:/Users/sugee/Downloads/Redundant/'

 

# Specify the directory containing the school files to be sorted

school_directory = 'C:/Users/sugee/OneDrive/Documents/Data/Sugeeth/Class 12'

 

# Specify the directory containing the free initiative files to be sorted

free_initiative_directory = 'C:/New folder (2)/.shortcut-targets-by-id/1H6GLo8tvjuDqWGfHuYQiZo_WkKoVZmJX/Jugzards - CBSE/Class 12'

 

# Define the subject folders

subjects = ['Biology', 'Catechism', 'Chemistry', 'Computer Science', 'English', 'General', 'Maths', 'Physics']

 

# Keywords to exclude files from sorting into the free initiative directory

exclude_keywords = ['private', 'confidential', 'restricted', 'personal']

 

# Create subject folders if they don't exist in the school directory

for subject in subjects:

    os.makedirs(os.path.join(school_directory, subject, "Archives"), exist_ok=True)

 

# Create a "General" folder within the school directory

general_folder_school = os.path.join(school_directory, "General")

os.makedirs(general_folder_school, exist_ok=True)

 

# Create a "General" folder within the free initiative directory

general_folder_free_initiative = os.path.join(free_initiative_directory, "General")

os.makedirs(general_folder_free_initiative, exist_ok=True)

 

def sort_files(filename, target_directory):

    try:

        # Determine the subject folder for the file

        subject_folder = find_subject_folder(filename)

        global var_aria

        if subject_folder:

            if 'sugeeth notes' in filename.lower():

                # If the file has "Sugeeth Notes", return the Archives directory

                target_subject_folder = os.path.join(subject_folder, "Archives")

                os.makedirs(target_subject_folder, exist_ok=True)

 

                var_aria = 1

                sort_file_with_match_counts(filename, subject_folder, target_directory)

                

                # Move the file to the Archives directory in the school directory

                shutil.copy(os.path.join(unsorted_directory, filename), os.path.join(subject_folder, filename))

                print(f"File '{filename}' sorted into '{subject_folder}' in the School directory.")

 

                return True

            else:

                # If the file does not have "Sugeeth Notes", sort the file based on match counts

                var_aria = 2

                sort_file_with_match_counts(filename, subject_folder, target_directory)

 

                return True

        else:

            print(f"File '{filename}' not found in the list of subjects.")

            return False

    except FileNotFoundError:

        print(f"File not found: {filename}")

        return False

 

# Function to find the subject folder for a file

def find_subject_folder(filename):

    # Convert filename to lowercase

    filename_lower = filename.lower()

 

    global subject_name_holder

    

    # Iterate through subjects and check for exact matches

    for subject in subjects:

        if subject.lower() in filename_lower:

            subject_name_holder = subject

            if 'sugeeth notes' in filename_lower:

                # If the file has "Sugeeth Notes", return the Archives directory

                return os.path.join(school_directory, subject, "Archives")

            else:

                # If the file does not have "Sugeeth Notes", return the main subject directory

                return os.path.join(school_directory, subject)

 

    return None

 

def sort_file_with_match_counts(filename, subject_folder, target_directory):

    try:

        # Check if the subject folder contains sub-folders

        subfolders = [subfolder for subfolder in os.listdir(subject_folder) if os.path.isdir(os.path.join(subject_folder, subfolder))]

 

        # Determine the sub-folder with the most matches

        best_match_count = 0

        best_match_subfolder = None

        for subfolder in subfolders:

            match_count = sum(1 for word in subfolder.lower().split() if word in filename.lower())

            if match_count > best_match_count:

                best_match_count = match_count

                best_match_subfolder = subfolder

 

        # Move the file to the sub-folder with the most matches

        if best_match_subfolder:

 

            if var_aria == 2:

                subfolder_path = os.path.join(subject_folder, best_match_subfolder)

                shutil.copy(os.path.join(unsorted_directory, filename), os.path.join(subfolder_path, filename))

                print(f"File '{filename}' sorted successfully into '{subfolder_path}' in the School directory.")

 

            

            # Move the file to the corresponding sub-folder in the free initiative directory

            free_initiative_subfolder_path = os.path.join(target_directory, subject_name_holder, best_match_subfolder)

            if not os.path.exists(free_initiative_subfolder_path):

                os.makedirs(free_initiative_subfolder_path)

            shutil.copy(os.path.join(subfolder_path, filename), os.path.join(free_initiative_subfolder_path, filename))

            print(f"File '{filename}' sorted successfully into '{free_initiative_subfolder_path}' in the Free Initiative directory.")

            return True

 

        else:

            if var_aria == 2:

                # If no matching sub-folder found, move the file to the subject folder

                shutil.copy(os.path.join(unsorted_directory, filename), os.path.join(subject_folder, filename))

                print(f"File '{filename}' sorted into '{subject_folder}' in the School directory.")

 

            # Move the file to the subject folder in the free initiative directory

            free_initiative_subject_path = os.path.join(target_directory, subject_name_holder)

            if not os.path.exists(free_initiative_subject_path):

                os.makedirs(free_initiative_subject_path)

        return True

 

    except FileNotFoundError:

        print(f"File not found: {filename}")

        return False

    

# Function to check if a file should be excluded based on keywords

def should_exclude_file(filename):

    for keyword in exclude_keywords:

        if keyword.lower() in filename.lower():

            return True

    return False

 

# Iterate through each file in the directory

for filename in os.listdir(unsorted_directory):

    if os.path.isfile(os.path.join(unsorted_directory, filename)):

        # Check if the file should be excluded from the free initiative directory

        if should_exclude_file(filename):

            continue

 

        # Sort the file into appropriate folders

        sort_files(filename, free_initiative_directory)

 

# Once all files have been sorted, delete them from the unsorted directory

for filename in os.listdir(unsorted_directory):

    file_path = os.path.join(unsorted_directory, filename)

    if os.path.isfile(file_path):

        os.remove(file_path)

 

print("Files sorted and deleted successfully!")

How to set up Windows 11?

I sent this to a friend… but I guess it’ll work here too.

For kids: Do all this under the supervision of your parents. This process may take upto 3 or 4 hours. Backup all your data to the HDD or 2nd Flash drive, if you have an extra Flash drive. All data on your new PC will be deleted in this process.

Step 1 - Checking…

Download and Install the PC Health Check app by clicking on the link below.

Aka

Or (If the above link gives an error)…

Microsoft

After install, Click on the “Check now” option.

If it says your PC is eligible, then move on to the next step. Otherwise, take an image of the error and send it to me!

Step 2 - Preparation

Download Windows 11

Download Windows 11 (3rd option) multi-edition ISO onto your new computer

objects.githubusercontent.com

Download Ventoy onto your new computer.

Plug In your USB flash drive (Thumb drive). Open Ventoy.

Click on the reload green button. Then, select your USB flash Drive.

Select Options -> Click on Secure Boot Support if not enabled by default.

Then click on Install and confirm your install.

After install:-

After this, open file explorer, open the Ventoy drive with the empty drive (since there will be two drives)

Transfer your Windows 11 iso to there.

Step 3 - Installing Windows 11

Then, while pressing restarting, click on the shift key.

(Shift + Restart)

Windows will open recovery mode.

Use your arrow keys to navigate to ‘use a device’ and click enter.

Select your Ventoy USB device.

You will see the Ventoy boot screen. Click Enter on the Windows 11 ISO.

(Image depends on the number of files)

Once in the Windows 11 installer, select a language, and click Next. Click on Install.

Accept the license agreement.

Enter your license key from the old computer. Or Click on  ‘I don’t have a product key.’ and select Windows 11 Home option. Click on Next.

Select custom install (Do not upgrade)

Then, del your SSD (it is the one with the small storage, beware! Once formatted, you must proceed with the installation of Windows 11. No other option)

Finish your installation by selecting the required options.

Wait for some time. Next select restart.

Step 4 - Setting up Windows!

Next go through the OOBE setup. (Create a new Microsoft account too, don’t use the old one.) Instructions are in the link below.

Giving Windows 11 a Try? How to Set Up and Customize Your Installation

There you go! Enjoy Windows!

Please don’t download any apps. Request me the apps (name only) you want to download and I will give simple Command Prompt Commands based on winget.

If you did not activate before, activate it now. Research on the net for steps.

⚠️ The Stages of Windows Destruction ⚠️

I found some comments on YouTube related to Destruction of the Windows Wayland and thus got inspired to combine them all together.
Enjoy.

Stage 1: No wallpaper – pretty chill 😎

Stage 2: Taskbar disappears – weird, but fine 🤨

Stage 3: Aero turns Basic – uh oh…

Stage 4: CTRL+ALT+DEL won’t load – SOMETHING’S WRONG 😰

Stage 5: Windows 7 / Classic Theme – regression detected ⚠️, DWM dead

Stage 6: Windows 95 Theme – catastrophic collapse 🚨… Oh God What happened?!!

Stage 7: Empty windows – hollow shells 👻

Stage 8: No windows at all – THE VOID 🌌

Stage 9: Cursor disappears – flatlined 💀

Stage 10: Windows 3.1 Theme – YOU BROKE REALITY ⏳.. Uh, what year is it again?

Stage 11: CMD Prompt only – you have ascended beyond death, BEYOND SALVATION 🕳️

Doubts Group A

Status: Defunct (Hall of Shame)
"This other one occurred due to extreme paranoia."

My classmates and I had a personal friends WhatsApp group to discuss school-related matters and help each other with homework. 

Then, one of my teachers expressed an interest in joining the group. To accommodate them, we created a separate group and added them. However, one of my classmates (whom I will not mention) was unhappy about this and complained to our homeroom teacher. 

Unfortunately, our homeroom teacher also shared the same dissatisfaction. As the dean, she ordered me to disband the new teacher-student group. 

Additionally, one of my friends mentioned that we had another group exclusively for class students. In response, the teacher provided us with guidelines to follow, a statement of non-liability, and assigned a student to observe the group on her behalf. To address the situation and provide clarity to all group members, I ended up creating a comprehensive documentation, which is linked below [Hall of Shame].

Doubts Group A - Rules and Regulations 

Due to the whole rules thingy, the group ended thirce, and even though we tried rebooting the group multiple times, it just caused more problems than it actually solved.

Thus, I regard this as a failure in my books.

Jugzards

Merged with Project Troopers

The Jugzards Project was this other group that I came up with along with my friend John Andrew. It aims to serve as a reference point for all students, as it contains some materials. I ain’t actively maintaining it anymore considering that:

I couldn’t create an alternate system that would just provide links and not the actual files on Google Drive.

It wasn’t as rewarding as I had hoped.

Started off for Class 10 things, it quickly expanded to all classes, and then to none again.

Home | Jugzards

Project Troopers

Current Status: Running at Reduced Capacity

My other project, the one I actually do maintain, is the Troopers Knowledge Hub. Though don’t ask me about the legal stuff, it has a very limited scope I.e just to help my classmates. I created this hub because all the students in my class were nagging me through WhatsApp, asking the same doubts or materials over and over again. The cherry on top is that if I didn’t answer’em properly or send all my notes, one would get the idea to steal my notebook for their own usage (to safeguard myself I had to take photos of pages and pages of notes - and I mean not some 10 or 20… at least 400 pages in each subject as of now.) I came to the understanding that since I anyway take photos, why not naturally share with them. But this gave rise to another set of problems, where  people would keep asking me to send the same notes over and over again. Thus, I (and a few others) created this hub just for my class, to unify literally everything (activities’ details, school announcements, notes, and so much more) into one unified platform. It’s been successful so far, and hope it doesn’t end up in Hall of Shame.
UPDATE: The initiative is kinda dead in the core group, since it is no longer easy to access and use. However, it has expanded pretty nicely. We have 100+ members now!

Home Page | The Troopers Knowledge Hub

The old hub:

Troopers Knowledge Hub: Unleash Your Potential

The Outlier Project

Current Status: Defunct

There is a third project, called the Outliers Project. This one was created by my friend John, so kudos to him. He asked to me chime in to help him run it, so I tried.

The ambition behind this project was to gather a set of "outliers" into a particular group to study with laser-sharp focus. The medium of communication was supposed to be WhatsApp. There were lofty ambitions, to conduct a streamlined admissions process via interview to ensure that the students enrolled were idealogically aligned with the group's bottom line, i.e. to study for JEE and NEET.

However, you could see where this was going… A "WhatsApp" group and "Studying with Laser-sharp focus" never really went together. Over time, the interest to run the group was lost…

The Outlier Project - Rules and Regulations

In the end, it also ended up becoming defunct. 

Even the original webpage that was supposed to be for collaboration among group members, never really came into being…

Flash 4 Friends

My friends and I founded this novel holding group (that we’d been planning for months) in the year 2020. It started 💫 off with a YouTube channel, then a website and went on. There were 5 people in this group, and all of them founded it. 

We started off with the channel Minimakerzz, but then that channel’s E-Mail account was hacked (We later got to know that there was no hack, instead one of the founding members had used it as his own personal account to his own wishes.. and then tried to play the fool with me). 

So we started another channel, by the name of “MiniMakerzz 5.0”. However, due to coordination issues and conflict of interest, we ended up disbanding and deleting everything.

AGNBOC

F4F wasn’t my first company though. My original company was always the AGNBOC company. Originally, I had invited my friends to join this company, but we ended up with F4F instead.

Even F4F was (after some time of its founding) under this company, but then broke off.

This was my hobby and my dream, which I ended up closing off due to academic reasons.

At its pinnacle though, it had its own website (of course every thing needs a website satiresatire ), YouTube channels (three simultaneously running channels - Creative Ideas, Riddles and Stamps), published its own books, own shortcuts, own alternative messaging solutions (not indie though) etc. I had to close this off as it was becoming too much of a burden to handle… it became a one-man show.

Not Found | HSAG

HSAG Ingeniousity

My last "company" as such, I'd say. Same architecture as the previous one (AGNBOC), except that this time I ran the show only with one other person. That's kinda it. The shortcuts became a pain-point and source of scrutiny, so we disbanded this company too. Here's the link to its resources, however.

HSAG | Software Services

Techneeka

HSAG Ingeniousity - Documentation

29-06-2022 (Reading from Sirach)

Verses

Ecclesiastes 1:8-10 (NKJV)

8 All things are full of labor; Man cannot express it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, Nor the ear filled with hearing. 

9 That which has been is what will be, That which is done is what will be done, And there is nothing new under the sun. 

10 Is there anything of which it may be said, “See, this is new”? It has already been in ancient times before us.

Explanation

Long version

The more humans try to grasp for solid things, the more they turn out to be like smoke and wind. Nothing in this world is permanent. We come and we go. Old things are tried over and over again. The sun rises and sets everyday. So, even if you desire for more, you can’t take it away with you. Thus, enjoy your life with what you have, and always remember your creator.

Short version

Nothing in this world is permanent. Thus, enjoy your life with what you have, and always remember your creator.

References

VANITY OF VANITY | Bible Study | Ecclesiastes 1

Watch: Ecclesiastes Bible Book Overview Video | BibleProject™

Watch: Ecclesiastes Wisdom Series Video | BibleProject™

Ecclesiastes 1

10-12-2021 (MC Script)

Prayer Song

God is our cover and our shield. The greatness of God can be recognized by the prayer we sing. He guides us every day and keeps us safe. So, I call upon Aaron Joe to thank God through his/her song. (Backup - You are my all in all)You are my all in all)

Bible Reading

Wisdom and Knowledge, Stories and Parables, the Bible is the right book to guide our day. It’s a way to connect with God, and also with people. I call upon R. Rohit to read a few verses from the bible.

{After} Thanks for those pearls of Wisdom, R. Rohit. (Backup - check Psalms 93)Psalms 93)

Lord's Prayer

God is a lamp in the darkness, the guide of our path. We must ask him to shine the light and be the guide so, that we may never fall into darkness. I call upon Joshua Micheal to request God to shine the light upon us.

Happy Birthday!

Every day is a new beginning, but some days are more special than others. Some celebrate Christmas, others celebrate New Year, but all of us celebrate birthdays! Let’s wish ______ a happy birthday with a birthday song.

Speech

A speech can be revolutionary. It change minds, thoughts and hearts. Good speeches bring good impact and make the world a better place. Let’s listen to a speech by ________.

[After] Thanks for the great speech, ______!

திருக்குறள்

One of the greatest books ever written was the திருக்குறள் . Its values are useful for everyone. The திருக்குறள் contains all things and there is nothing which it does not contain. It is considered to provide the code of conduct for the humanity of the planet earth for all time, which makes the past meet the present and creates the future. So, I call upon Joseph Obed to recite a திருக்குறள். (Backup - “அன்பின் வழிய துயிர்நிலை அஃதிலார்க்கு
என்புதோல் போர்த்த உடம்பு.”)

Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து

As a leader of innovation, Tamil Nadu is a state filled with literature, music, and plays! For most of us here, Tamil is our mother tongue. Let’s all rise & sing the Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து to pay respect to this wonderful land. I call upon Sushanth to sing the Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து.

End

“The most important thing in communication is hearing what isn’t said.”

Thank you all, for participating in today's assembly. Today’s assembly has drawn to a close. So, this is Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. of Class 9 ‘C’ signing-off.  We thank the school for giving 9 C an opportunity to conduct this week’s assembly. You can logout and join the first session. Have a Fun-filled Friday! Bye!

30-07-2021 (MC Script)

Prayer Song

A very good morning to all those present here. Prayer is the song of the heart that makes its way to the throne of God, even when it is entangled in the wailing of thousands of souls. So, I call upon Ashok Baskar to sing the prayer song.

[After singing] Thank you, Ashok, for singing a wonderful prayer song. (Backup - check My Lighthouse)My Lighthouse)

Bible Reading

God is our only rock and salvation, he is our fortress and we shall not be shaken if we connect with God. The bible connects us with God. So, I humbly request Allen Mathew to read few words of God’s wisdom.

{After reading] Thanks, Allen for filling our minds with God’s word. (Backup - Psalms 93)Psalms 93)

Lord's Prayer

Today or tomorrow, now and forever, God rules the world. Let’s connect to him through the Lord’s prayer, which strengthens our bond with him. I call upon Ashok Baskar to strengthen our faith that can grow weak at any time.

[After Prayer] Thank you, Ashok , for calling God.

Happy Birthday!

Every day is a new beginning, but some days are more special than others. Some celebrate Christmas, others celebrate New Year, but all of us celebrate birthdays! Let’s wish ______ a happy birthday with a birthday song.

Speech

People have their own experiences & thoughts. This becomes his or her wisdom. We share our wisdom to the world through our speeches. Speech is the mirror of the soul, as a man speaks, so is he. I call upon Jennifer Clara mam to share few words to inspire all of us here.

[After the person’s speech] Thank you, Jennifer Clara mam for sharing your words of wisdom.

திருக்குறள்

One of the greatest books ever written was the திருக்குறள் . Its values are useful for everyone. The திருக்குறள் contains all things and there is nothing which it does not contain. It is considered to provide the code of conduct for the humanity of the planet earth for all time, which makes the past meet the present and creates the future. So, I call upon  Joseph Obed to recite a திருக்குறள். (Backup - “அன்பின் வழிய துயிர்நிலை அஃதிலார்க்கு
என்புதோல் போர்த்த உடம்பு.”)

Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து

We live in Tamil Nadu. Our language, Tamil is filled with literature, music, and plays! Tamil was the leader of innovation in its heyday. For most of us here, it’s our mother tongue. Let’s all rise & sing the Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து to pay respect to this wonderful language. I call upon Sushanth to sing the Tamil தாய் வாழ்த்து.

End

“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”– Albert Einstein

Have a Fantastic Friday! We thank the school management for giving the opportunity to conduct this week’s assembly and also the teachers who coordinated.

Thank you all, for participating in today's assembly. So, this is Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. signing-off. Students, kindly post your name in the chat box, logout and join the first session. Have a nice day!

09-03-2021 (MC Script)

Prayer Song

God is great and good. Prayer is the song of the heart that makes its way to the throne of God, even when it is entangled in the wailing of thousands of souls. So, I call upon Ishana Santhosh to sing the prayer song.

[After singing] Thank you, Ishana, for singing a wonderful prayer song. (Backup - check My Lighthouse)My Lighthouse)

Bible Reading

God is our only rock and salvation, he is our fortress and we shall not be shaken if we connect with God. The bible connects us with God. So, I humbly request Joshua Micheal to read few words of God’s wisdom.

[After reading] Thanks, Joshua for filling our minds with God’s word. (Backup - Psalms 93)Psalms 93)

Lord's Prayer

Today or tomorrow, now and forever, God rules the world. Let’s connect to him through the Lord’s prayer, which strengthens our bond with him. I call upon Arihant Amit Kaul of Class 8 ‘D’ to strengthen our faith that can grow weak at any time.

[After Prayer] Thank you, Arihant, for calling God.

Happy Birthday!

Every day is a new beginning, but some days are more special than others. Some celebrate Christmas, others celebrate New Year, but all of us celebrate birthdays! Let’s wish ______ a happy birthday with a birthday song.

Speech

People have their own experiences & thoughts. This becomes his or her wisdom. We share our wisdom to the world through our speeches. Speech is the mirror of the soul, as a man speaks, so is he. I call upon Joshua Samuel of Class 8 ‘D’ to share few words to inspire all of us here.

[After the person’s speech]

Thank you, Joshua for sharing your words of wisdom.

School Anthem

We are students of DB SOE. We study at Don Bosco’s loving care. Let’s all rise & sing the school anthem of our school, DBSOE to pay homage to Don Bosco’s vision and DB SOE. I call upon Riya to sing the school anthem.

Thought of the day

A thought can change everything. It can turn the fruitless into fruitful, and the weak can become strong. So, the thought for today is:- 

“It is very easy to defeat someone, but it is very hard to win someone.”

End

Always be Kind, be thoughtful. Be truthful. Be Real. But, most of all, be Grateful! Happy Tuesday.

Thank you all, for participating in today's assembly. Today’s assembly has drawn to a close. So, this is Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. of Class 8 ‘D’ signing-off. You can logout and join the next session. Have a nice day! Bye!

19-01-2021 (MC Script)

Prayer Song

God is great and good. When we start the day by praising him, he will make the day a great one. It might be even memorable for us. Well, let’s start today with a prayer song by J.A. Kiran Das of Class 8 ‘D’.

[After singing] Thank you, Kiran, for singing a wonderful prayer song. (Backup - check God will make a way)God will make a way)

Bible Reading

The bible is a guide to us. It contains some of the most important values that humans need to learn. It is a gateway and a connector to God. So, I humbly request A. Clement Abraham to read few words of God’s wisdom.

[After reading] Thanks, Clement for filling our minds with God’s word. (Backup - check Psalms 93)(Backup - check Psalms 93)Psalms 93)

Lord's Prayer

Today or tomorrow, now and forever, God rules the world. Let’s connect to him through the Lord’s prayer, which strengthens our bond with him. I call upon Arihant Amit Kaul of Class 8 ‘D’ to strengthen our faith that can grow weak at any time.

[After Prayer] Thank you, Arihant, for calling God.

Happy Birthday!

Every day is a new beginning, but some days are more special than others. Some celebrate Christmas, others celebrate New Year, but all of us celebrate birthdays! Let’s wish J.A. Kiran Das of Class 8 'D' a happy birthday with a birthday song.

Speech

People have their own experiences & thoughts. This becomes his or her wisdom. We share our wisdom to the world through our speeches. Speech is the mirror of the soul, as a man speaks, so is he. I call upon L. Kevin Daniel of Class 8 ‘D’ to share few words to inspire all of us here.

[After the person’s speech] Thank you, Kevin for sharing your words of wisdom.

School Anthem

We are students of DB SOE. We study at Don Bosco’s loving care. Let’s all rise & sing the school anthem of our school, DBSOE to pay homage to Don Bosco’s vision and DB SOE. I call upon E. Jenani of 8 ‘C’ to sing the school anthem.

Thought of the day

A thought can change everything. It can turn the fruitless into fruitful, and the weak can become strong. So, the thought for today is 

“Change your thoughts and you’ll change your world.”

End

Always be Kind, be thoughtful. Be truthful. Be Real. But, most of all, be Grateful! Happy Tuesday.

Thank you all, for participating in today's assembly. Today’s assembly has drawn to a close. So, this is Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. of Class 8 ‘D’ signing-off. You can logout and join the next session. Have a nice day! Bye!

07-09-2020 (MC Script)

Prayer Song

The best way to start a new day, be it a work day or a school day, is to begin it with a small prayer song. It calls God and gives us the strength to carry on with our work. It turns the impossible into possible. So, with no further add-to, I call upon Ishana Santosh of Class 8 ‘D’  to call god , ask him to shower his blessings upon us and give us the strength to carry on with this wonderful day.

 (Backup - check God will make a way)God will make a way)

[After singing] Thank you, Ishana Santosh for singing the prayer song.

Bible Reading

The Word of God is a gift to us. It reveals his true nature and allows us to listen to him speak. A life built on God’s word is a life that will stand through every season, let it be a rough one or a smooth one. So, I humbly request A. Clement Abraham to fill our minds with God’s word so that we will have no room for satan’s lies.

{After reading} (Backup is Pslams 121)

Thanks, Clement Abraham for filling our minds with God’s word.

Lord's Prayer

A small prayer to God is the gateway to a happy life and ultimately, heaven . It makes our difficulties melt away in front of our eyes. Let's join our hands and close our eyes for the Lord's prayer. So, I call upon Arihant Amit Kaul of Class 8 ‘D’ to strengthen our faith that can grow weak at any time.

[After Prayer] Thank you, Arihant, for calling God.

Happy Birthday!

Well, what is a better day in our lives than a birthday! It is a joyful day that indicates a start of a new phase of our lives. So, let us wish G.T. Nitish Kumar of class VII ‘B’ a very happy birthday with a beautiful birthday song!

Speech

A speech can be revolutionary. It change minds, thoughts and hearts. Good speeches bring good impact and make the world a better place. Let’s listen to a speech by ________.

[After] Thanks for the great speech, ______!

National Anthem

We are Indians , firstly and lastly. We live in a nation full of Austerity and Prosperity. Let’s all rise & sing the national anthem of our country to pay homage to those who never stood again, for us to stand and sing the national anthem. I call upon Riya Elizabeth Rooseph of 8B to sing the national anthem.

Thought of the Day

A thought can change the course of mankind. It can change any curse into a blessing. So, the thought for today is 

“When you talk, you are only repeating something you know. But if you listen, you may learn something new.” – Dalai Lama

End

Thank you all, for participating in today's assembly. Today’s assembly has drawn to a close. So, this is Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. of Class 8 ‘D’ signing-off. You can logout and join the next session. Have a nice day! Bye!

Prayer Songs

These are the list of prayer songs that are frequently used as backup to facilitate the smooth functioning of the class assembly, even when the original singer is not present.

God will make a way

Oh, God will make a way

Where there seems to be no way

He works in ways we cannot see

He will make a way for me

He will be my guide

Hold me closely to His side

With love and strength for each new day

He will make a way, He will make a way

By a roadway in the wilderness, He'll lead me

And rivers in the desert will I see

Heaven and Earth will fade but His word will still remain

And He will do something new today

Oh, God will make a way

Where there seems to be no way

He works in ways we cannot see

He will make a way for me

He will be my guide

Hold me closely to His side

With love and strength for each new day

He will make a way, He will make a way

By a roadway in the wilderness, He'll lead me

And rivers in the desert will I see

Heaven and Earth will fade but His word will still remain

And He will do something new today

Oh, God will make a way

Where there seems to be no way

He works in ways we cannot see

He will make a way for me

He will be my guide

Hold me closely to His side

With love and strength for each new day

He will make a way, He will make a way

With love and strength for each new day

He will make a way, He will make a way

God Will Make A Way English Karaoke

God Will Make a Way (with lyrics) - Don Moen

My Lighthouse

In my wrestling and in my doubts

In my failures You won't walk out

Your great love will lead me through

You are the peace in my troubled sea, oh oh

You are the peace in my troubled sea

In the silence, You won't let go

In the questions, Your truth will hold

Your great love will lead me through

You are the peace in my troubled sea, oh oh

You are the peace in my troubled sea

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse

Shining in the darkness, I will follow You

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse (oh oh)

I will trust the promise,

You will carry me safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore

I won't fear what tomorrow brings

With each morning I'll rise and sing

My God's love will lead me through

You are the peace in my troubled sea, oh oh

You are the peace in my troubled sea, oh oh

You are my light

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Shining in the darkness, I will follow You (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

I will trust the promise,

You will carry me safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore

Fire before us, You're the brightest

You will lead us through the storms

Fire before us, You're the brightest

You will lead us through the storms

Fire before us, You're the brightest

You will lead us through the storms

Fire before us, You're the brightest

You will lead us through the storms

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Shining in the darkness, I will follow You (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

My Lighthouse, my lighthouse (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

I will trust the promise,

You will carry me safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore (Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Safe to shore

My Lighthouse - Karaoke - Lyrics

Rend Collective - My Lighthouse (Official Video)

You are my all in all

You are my strength when I am weak

You are the treasure that I seek

You are my all in all

Seeking You as a precious jewel

Lord, to give up I'd be a fool

You are my all in all

Taking my sin, my cross, my shame

Rising again I bless Your name

You are my all in all

When I fall down You pick me up

When I am dry You fill my cup

You are my all in all

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

You are my strength when I am weak

You are the treasure that I seek

You are my all in all

Seeking You as a precious jewel

Lord, to give up I'd be a fool

You are my all in all

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Jesus, Lamb of God

Worthy is Your name

Worthy is Your name

Worthy is Your name

You Are My All In All - Karaoke | English

You are My All in All - Full Song

Bible Reading

These are the list of bible readings that are frequently used as backup to facilitate the smooth functioning of the class assembly, even when the original reader is not present.

Psalms 121

I will lift up my eyes to the hills From whence comes my help?

My help comes from the Lord, Who made heaven and earth.

He will not allow your foot to be moved; He who keeps you will not slumber.

Behold, He who keeps Israel Shall neither slumber nor sleep.

The Lord is your keeper; The Lord is your shade at your right hand.

The sun shall not strike you by day, Nor the moon by night.

The Lord shall preserve you from all evil; He shall preserve your soul.

The Lord shall preserve your going out and your coming in From this time forth, and even forevermore.

Psalms 93

The Lord reigns, He is clothed with majesty; The Lord is clothed, He has girded Himself with strength. Surely the world is established, so that it cannot be moved.

Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting.

The floods have lifted up, O Lord, The floods have lifted up their voice; The floods lift up their waves.

The Lord on high is mightier Than the noise of many waters, Than the mighty waves of the sea.

Your testimonies are very sure; Holiness adorns Your house, O Lord, forever

Source

Bible by YouVersion - Read it for free!

Lord's Prayer

Our Father, Who art in heaven,

Hallowed be Thy Name.

Thy Kingdom come.

Thy Will be done,

on earth as it is in Heaven.

Give us this day our daily bread.

And forgive us our trespasses,

as we forgive those who trespass against us.

And lead us not into temptation,

but deliver us from evil. Amen.

திருக்குறள்

“அன்பின் வழிய துயிர்நிலை அஃதிலார்க்கு
என்புதோல் போர்த்த உடம்பு.”

விளக்கம் :-

அன்பின் வழியில் இயங்கும் உடம்பே உயிர்நின்ற உடம்பாகும்: அன்பு இல்லாதவர்க்கு உள்ள உடம்பு எலும்பைத் தோல்போர்த்த வெற்றுடம்பே ஆகும்.

English explanation:-

That body alone which is inspired with love contains a living soul: if void of it, (the body) is bone overlaid with skin.

Thirukkural, Thirukkural in Tamil, English Written by Thiruvalluvar with Meaning

Reference Website

Assembly - Scripts

Hello there! I'm Sugeeth and this my documentation of all MC Scripts I've created. Please click on any of the below cards to see the MC Script for that day! Hope you'll enjoy! 

Class 10

Document

29-06-2022 (Reading from Sirach)

Class 9

Document

10-12-2021 (MC Script)

Document

30-07-2021 (MC Script)

Class 8

Document

09-03-2021 (MC Script)

Document

19-01-2021 (MC Script)

Document

07-09-2020 (MC Script)

List of Backups

Document

Prayer Songs

Document

Bible Reading

Document

Lord's Prayer

Document

திருக்குறள்

© Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A. All rights reserved. 
Student - DB SOE

Case 5 (The MacBook Pro Case)

Parent Case File Excerpt (Case 5.1)

Plaintiff's Background and Allegations:

Mr. Whitman, an esteemed and longstanding patron of Apple products, made a purchase of significant import when he acquired the MacBook Pro 2017 (equipped with the innovative Touch Bar) directly from Apple's official distribution channels in the year 2018. It is important to note that this transaction was marked by a profound sense of trust, given Mr. Whitman's longstanding loyalty to the Apple brand.

However, the prevailing narrative surrounding the MacBook Pro 2017 (Touch Bar version) presents a rather disheartening picture, as it has become widely acknowledged within both user communities and industry circles that this particular iteration suffered from notable deficiencies. Foremost among these issues was the notorious "DisplayGate" quandary, which had the unfortunate consequence of adversely affecting the device's display performance over extended periods of usage.

The DisplayGate conundrum manifested in a rather perplexing manner, wherein the display quality exhibited discernible degradation following prolonged operational durations. Each manifestation of this issue appeared to beget a subsequent recurrence within progressively shorter intervals, thus exacerbating the problem's impact. It was, regrettably, a cascade effect - as each instance of display faltering rendered the computer progressively less functional. To mitigate these disruptive occurrences, a provisional workaround emerged, necessitating a complete cessation of computer usage for a full day after each incident. This intermission was deemed necessary to curtail the likelihood of a subsequent episode. Remarkably, the root cause of this display debacle was traced back to a cable that, it seems, was ill-equipped to withstand the rigors of consistent use. Though Mr. Whitman astutely recognized the issue at hand, he had dismissed it as an outcome of thermal overheating attributable to his own usage patterns.

Moreover, the MacBook's design featured the pioneering "Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism," an ambitious endeavor aimed at achieving optimal slimness for the device. Tragically, this innovative design bore a glaring Achilles' heel - its susceptibility to the accumulation of particulate matter, colloquially referred to as "dust." This seemingly innocuous detritus wreaked havoc upon the keyboard mechanism, precipitating erratic behavior and undermining the keyboard's overall functionality.

In summation, Mr. Whitman's MacBook Pro 2017 purchase was marred by significant deficiencies, chiefly the DisplayGate malfunction, which rendered the device progressively inoperative, and the lamentable susceptibility of the Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism to dust accumulation, causing its performance to be markedly erratic.

Plaintiff's Allegations:

Mr. Whitman, an established and loyal Apple user, procured the MacBook Pro 2017 (Touch Bar version) directly from Apple in 2018.

The MacBook Pro 2017 was plagued by a critical DisplayGate issue, leading to recurrent degradation of the display's performance over extended periods of usage.

The DisplayGate problem escalated with each occurrence, necessitating a one-day cessation of usage after each manifestation to mitigate subsequent episodes.

The underlying cause of the DisplayGate issue was identified as a cable unsuited for sustained use, a fact that Mr. Whitman initially misattributed to overheating.

The innovative Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism, designed to enhance device slimness, suffered from susceptibility to dust accumulation, leading to erratic keyboard performance.

Mr. Whitman's allegiance to Apple, combined with the substantial issues he encountered with his MacBook Pro 2017, form the basis of his grievance against the defendant. This case seeks to underscore the responsibilities borne by tech manufacturers to provide products that align with the expectations of their loyal customer base, and it underscores the necessity of holding accountable those who fall short of these standards.

Plaintiff's Further Allegations and Subsequent Actions:

In a further turn of misfortune, the repercussions of the MacBook Pro 2017's deficiencies reached an even more distressing juncture for Mr. Whitman. Merely a few days subsequent to his prior experiences, the disconcerting consequences of the Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism manifested in an unfortunate incident involving an important email communication with his manager. As an individual endowed with keen typing acumen, Mr. Whitman composed a significant email, only to discover that the 'e' key, a fundamental and ubiquitous component of written communication, remained obstinately unresponsive to his keystrokes.

Blinded by an unwavering faith in both his own proficiency and the sterling reputation of Apple products, Mr. Whitman, regrettably, neglected to cross-verify the contents of his email before dispatching it. Tragically, the very lack of caution that stemmed from his trust in the product served as a catalyst for a profoundly distressing outcome. Mr. Whitman's manager, upon receipt of the email, deemed its content to be "offensive" in nature and deemed it a direct affront, culminating in the unforeseen and deeply consequential termination of Mr. Whitman's professional position under the premise of disrespect.

In a subsequent attempt to fortify his job prospects, Mr. Whitman embarked upon the pivotal task of drafting his resume, only to encounter yet another manifestation of the recurrent malady - the uncooperative 'e' key. This disheartening revelation spurred Mr. Whitman into immediate action, propelling him to embark on an investigative venture of his own volition.

Resorting to the vast repository of knowledge available on the internet, Mr. Whitman embarked on a journey to discern the underlying causes of his predicament. In doing so, he unearthed a wealth of similar narratives, all of which bore striking resemblance to his own lamentable ordeal. Collectively, these issues had been dubbed the "ButterflyGate" - an amalgamation of the two prominent concerns, the DisplayGate and Butterfly Keyboard problems, that had conspired to render his MacBook Pro 2017 experience grievously flawed.

It was at this juncture that Mr. Whitman, driven by a quest for justice and accountability, elected to initiate a course of action aimed at rectifying the perceived injustices he had suffered at the hands of the MacBook Pro 2017's inherent deficiencies. His resolve was steadfast, and his pursuit of remedies was fueled by a commitment to shed light upon the pernicious implications of these issues, not only for himself but for a broader community of users who had found themselves ensnared by the web of the ButterflyGate.

Plaintiff's Actions:

Following the 'e' key malfunction, Mr. Whitman's ill-fated email exchange with his manager led to his termination based on allegations of disrespect.

Subsequent attempts to create his resume were hampered by the recurring 'e' key malfunction, further exacerbating Mr. Whitman's grievances.

Through independent online research, Mr. Whitman uncovered a widespread pattern of similar issues affecting other MacBook Pro 2017 users, collectively known as the "ButterflyGate."

Driven by a sense of justice and a desire to address the pervasive issues, Mr. Whitman resolved to take action to seek redress for the hardships he had endured.

The emerging pattern of events underscores the far-reaching consequences of the ButterflyGate, which extend beyond individual inconvenience to encompass broader professional repercussions and precipitate a determination on Mr. Whitman's part to challenge the status quo and seek reparation.

Plaintiff's Lawsuit and Allegations against Apple:

With a steadfast determination to rectify the injustices he had endured due to the cascading failures of his MacBook Pro 2017, Mr. Whitman resolved to wield the sword of justice and seek redress through the legal system. Hence, he initiated a lawsuit against Apple, a corporate entity of considerable renown, charging it with a litany of offenses that had collectively eroded his trust, tarnished his reputation, inflicted financial hardship, and fueled a sense of profound disillusionment.

The foundation of Mr. Whitman's grievance rested upon the bedrock of trust - a trust that had been cultivated over years of brand loyalty and affirmed through numerous transactions. Central to his lawsuit were allegations of loss of trust, stemming from the belief that Apple's product, which he had placed unwavering faith in, had ultimately failed him, thereby leading to repercussions that extended far beyond the realm of technological malfunction.

Mr. Whitman's allegations also encompassed the realm of tangible financial loss, driven by the unfortunate sequence of events catalyzed by the malfunctioning MacBook Pro 2017. It was his contention that had the Butterfly Keyboard and DisplayGate issues not marred the device's functionality, his employment would have remained secure, and his standing within society would have remained untarnished. In effect, he positioned these technological failures as catalysts for a chain reaction that led to the revocation of his employment and, consequentially, his dignity.

Furthermore, Mr. Whitman leveled a charge of "tomfoolery" against Apple - a term indicative of a perceived sense of deceit or mockery. This claim was grounded in the belief that Apple, through the deployment of the MacBook Pro 2017 with its recurring malfunctions, had played an inadvertent yet pernicious role in undermining his credibility and esteem within his professional and social spheres.

Embodying the gravitas of his assertions, Mr. Whitman sought comprehensive remedies. His demands included a request for financial restitution to address the financial losses he had incurred as a direct result of Apple's products, coupled with an insistence that Apple should rectify the damage caused by providing him with suitable employment to restore his standing in society.

Apple's Defense and Counterarguments:

In response to Mr. Whitman's lawsuit, Apple asserts that the onus of responsibility lay squarely upon the customer to avail themselves of the remedies provided by the company. Apple contends that it had instituted a free repair program to address the malfunctions experienced by certain MacBook Pro 2017 users, a program that was publicly available on its official website. The crux of Apple's defense rests on the notion that Mr. Whitman failed to avail himself of this solution, thus absolving Apple of culpability.

The prosecutor counters Apple's position with an argument grounded in the realms of transparency and communication. While Apple may have instituted a repair program, the prosecutor contends that the program's existence was not prominently advertised or publicly disseminated in a manner that would be reasonably expected of a company of Apple's stature. As such, the prosecutor posits that Apple's defense, predicated on the assumption of customer awareness, remains inherently flawed.

The courtroom becomes the crucible within which these conflicting contentions shall be tested and adjudicated, as both sides present their evidence and arguments, each vying to establish the validity of their respective positions. Through this legal confrontation, the truth shall be unearthed, and justice shall be pursued, as the honorable court seeks to illuminate the path forward in the intricate web woven between Mr. Whitman and the tech giant, Apple.

In Parent Case 2, only this part of the history is changed.

An exemplary response:-

Opening Statement - Plaintiff's Lawyer:

Ladies and gentlemen of the court, distinguished members of the jury, today we gather to address a pivotal case that resonates with the very core of justice and accountability. My esteemed colleague and I represent Mr. Whitman, an individual who, much like each of you, believed in the promise of technological innovation and the integrity of a brand as renowned as Apple. Our case revolves around the intertwining of trust, integrity, and the pursuit of justice in the realm of modern commerce.

Mr. Whitman, a loyal and longstanding Apple user, found himself entangled in a web of dismay and disappointment, the product of a MacBook Pro 2017 that bore within it not just malfunctioning components, but also a chain reaction of adverse consequences. A confluence of display degradation known as DisplayGate and a keyboard mechanism plagued by the menace of dust, encapsulated in the term "ButterflyGate," culminated in a sequence of events that grievously disrupted Mr. Whitman's personal and professional life.

In the wake of the Butterfly Keyboard's 'e' key refusing to respond, an ill-fated email to his manager bore unintended offensive implications, leading to the unceremonious termination of Mr. Whitman's employment on allegations of disrespect. His attempts to forge a new path by drafting his resume were further hampered by the same recurring malfunction, exacerbating his already trying circumstances. It was at this juncture that Mr. Whitman, propelled by a resolve to illuminate the shortcomings he had encountered, embarked upon a quest for justice and accountability, prompting him to take legal action against Apple.

His lawsuit, grounded in the pillars of trust, financial loss, and dignity, speaks not only to his personal experience, but also to the broader implications that arise when corporate entities falter in their commitment to the very values they profess. With your guidance, esteemed members of the jury, we aim to shed light on a narrative that highlights the need for ethical business practices, transparency, and, above all, the assurance that products touted as emblematic of innovation uphold the standards they purport to embody.

Opening Statement - Defendant's Lawyer:

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, esteemed members of the court, we stand before you as representatives of Apple, a company that has consistently epitomized technological advancement and customer satisfaction. We believe that this case is not a testament to our failure, but rather an opportunity to underscore the importance of diligent consumer behavior and informed decisions in the dynamic landscape of technology.

While Mr. Whitman's predicament is regrettable, it is important to recognize that Apple has consistently taken proactive measures to address issues as they arise. In the case of the MacBook Pro 2017, a free repair program was instituted to rectify the malfunctions at the heart of this matter. However, the prosecution claims that our communication on this matter was inadequate. We assert that the program's availability was transparently outlined on our official website, a platform accessible to all our valued customers, including Mr. Whitman.

Furthermore, we cannot overlook the ramifications of Mr. Whitman's public allegations against Apple. We allege that his actions, driven by a purported quest for justice, have instead resulted in public defamation, incalculable damage to our goodwill, and the dissemination of misinformation. These consequences have contributed to financial losses, encompassing the costs of litigation and even fluctuations in stock market performance.

Apple maintains that Mr. Whitman's decision to escalate this matter through a lawsuit, which subsequently gained public attention, is indicative of a strategic manipulation of the legal system to foster his own popularity. We acknowledge his concerns, yet we emphasize the importance of balanced discourse, one that accounts for both consumer responsibility and the measures companies take to rectify issues.

In the forthcoming proceedings, we shall present a comprehensive argument to demonstrate Apple's commitment to quality, innovation, and customer care. We implore the members of this jury to consider the entirety of the narrative, evaluate the actions of all parties involved, and render a verdict that resonates with the principles of fairness and accountability.

Closing Statement - Plaintiff's Lawyer:

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, as we approach the conclusion of this trial, I implore you to reflect on the profound implications of the events that have unfolded. Our case, at its essence, underscores the inherent social contract that exists between consumer and corporation. Mr. Whitman's narrative is not merely a solitary tale of technological woe, but rather a symbol of the individual's trust and the expectation that corporations adhere to the standards they espouse.

We contend that Mr. Whitman's actions were driven by an earnest desire to shed light on the inadequacies of a product he had invested both his trust and resources in. His pursuit of justice was neither a quest for popularity nor a misguided attempt to undermine a brand. Instead, it was a call to arms, urging us all to consider the far-reaching implications of products that enter our lives and homes.

As we collectively grapple with the aftermath of the ButterflyGate, let us remember that the bond between consumer and corporation must be built upon transparency, responsibility, and the shared pursuit of excellence. We entrust you, esteemed members of the jury, with the task of rendering a verdict that serves not only Mr. Whitman's quest for reparation but also the broader ideals of justice, accountability, and the preservation of consumer trust.

Closing Statement - Defendant's Lawyer:

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the events that have unfolded throughout this trial highlight the multifaceted nature of responsibility in the realm of consumer relations. While we acknowledge the inconveniences that Mr. Whitman has encountered, we emphasize the importance of consumer awareness and the role it plays in shaping the narrative of technological interactions.

Apple, as a pioneer of innovation, has consistently strived to provide solutions that redefine the boundaries of possibility. The free repair program that was established reflects our commitment to address challenges as they arise, even in cases where consumer awareness may fall short. Our assertion that the program's availability was transparently communicated via our official channels stands unwavering.

The portrayal of Mr. Whitman's pursuit as one of popularity-seeking undermines the nuanced intricacies of this case. It is essential to recognize that the dynamics between consumer and corporation are interwoven with the principles of responsibility and awareness. We assert that Mr. Whitman's actions, although well-intentioned, have engendered unintended consequences that extend beyond the bounds of individual experiences.

As you contemplate your verdict, we implore you to deliberate not merely on the isolated events at hand, but also on the broader context of responsible consumer behavior and corporate accountability. By doing so, you shall illuminate a path forward that resonates with the ideals of fairness, balance, and the equilibrium between individual rights and collective responsibilities.

Usual Judge's Verdict… (with no definite winner…)

As an impartial judge, I would carefully consider the arguments presented by both sides and weigh the evidence before rendering a decision. The outcome of the case would depend on the strength of the arguments, the credibility of the evidence, and how well each side addressed the legal claims and counterclaims.

In this particular case, both parties have raised valid points. On one hand, Mr. Whitman's grievances are rooted in genuine experiences of malfunctioning products that had significant personal and professional repercussions. His claims of loss of trust, financial loss, and the impact on his reputation due to the alleged design flaws hold weight.

On the other hand, Apple's counterclaims of public defamation, loss of goodwill, and financial losses resulting from Mr. Whitman's actions cannot be ignored. The company's assertion that it had offered a free repair program, even if not prominently advertised, suggests an attempt to address the issues once they became apparent.

As the judge, my decision would be based on the legal merits of the case and the evidence presented. It is essential to determine whether Apple had fulfilled its obligations to provide functional products and communicate relevant information to its customers. Additionally, I would assess whether Mr. Whitman's actions were genuinely motivated by a desire for justice or if they were strategically intended to gain personal popularity.

Ultimately, a fair and just decision would be reached by carefully evaluating the legal arguments, the evidence, and the principles of consumer protection and corporate responsibility.

Sub-case File Excerpt - Case 5.1.1

Apple's Counterclaims and Mr. Whitman's Defense:

In an unexpected turn of events, the courtroom drama takes an intriguing twist as Apple emerges victorious in the initial case filed by Mr. Whitman. Armed with this favorable outcome, Apple elects to wield its legal arsenal in a counteroffensive, launching a counter-suit against Mr. Whitman on a litany of charges that collectively underscore the perceived damage inflicted upon the company.

Apple's counterclaims against Mr. Whitman include:

Public Defamation: Apple alleges that Mr. Whitman's public airing of grievances against the company has resulted in unjustified and defamatory damage to its reputation.

Loss of Good Will: Apple contends that Mr. Whitman's actions have eroded the company's goodwill and standing within the market, thus precipitating irreparable harm.

Misuse of Case for Popularity: Apple claims that Mr. Whitman strategically manipulated the lawsuit proceedings to enhance his own popularity and gain undeserved public attention.

Financial Loss: Apple posits that Mr. Whitman's legal actions have precipitated quantifiable financial losses, incorporating expenses related to the case, as well as detrimental impacts on the company's stock market performance.

Mr. Whitman, faced with these counterclaims, steadfastly maintains his position. He asserts that his actions were motivated by a genuine desire to bring to light the pervasive problems he had encountered with his MacBook Pro 2017. Defending his actions, Mr. Whitman argues that his intent was to shed light on the latent issues of the MacBook and contribute to a wider discourse on the matter. He underlines that he had followed advice from others in pursuing legal action and that his primary motive was not personal gain or popularity.

In response to Apple's assertion regarding his failure to avail the Free Repair Program, Mr. Whitman maintains that he was unaware of its existence and contends that Apple bears responsibility for not effectively communicating the availability of this solution to its customer base.

Central to Mr. Whitman's defense is the assertion that Apple's own actions and design flaws catalyzed the series of events that led to the parent case in the first place. He contends that Apple's faulty design and manufacturing processes are at the crux of the issue, and he argues that holding the company accountable for these systemic shortcomings is a just and necessary endeavor.

As the legal battle rages on, the courtroom becomes the arena within which the contours of justice are redefined, and the competing narratives of Apple and Mr. Whitman are scrutinized to determine where culpability truly lies and where equitable remedies may be found. The judge and jury will be tasked with the complex challenge of weighing the evidence, considering the motives, and delivering a verdict that upholds the principles of justice while navigating the intricate nuances of a case that has far-reaching implications for both an individual and a corporate entity of considerable magnitude.

The Actual Fight…

Defense Counsel for Apple - Ms. Chambers:

Ladies and gentlemen of the court, esteemed members of the jury, today we find ourselves in the heart of a legal labyrinth, wherein the truth stands as a testament to the wisdom of discernment. My client, Apple, has emerged victorious in the initial case, underscoring the integrity of our product and the merit of our defense.

Yet, the narrative takes a twist, as Mr. Whitman pivots to become the focal point of our counterclaims. The panorama painted by these counterclaims reveals a different tale, one where the pristine image of a technological titan is marred by accusations of defamation, loss of goodwill, and calculated misuse of litigation.

Let us dissect this counter narrative with precision. Was it truly a crusade for justice that guided Mr. Whitman's actions? Or was it a strategic ploy, a calculated attempt to seize the spotlight of public discourse? We contend that the latter holds true, for the very essence of his claims – the alleged "misuse of case to increase popularity" – stands as a testament to his intention.

Our assertion is fortified by his own admission – advice from unnamed sources became the driving force behind his legal onslaught. Were these well-meaning advisors merely guiding him toward justice, or were they fostering an agenda of personal elevation? The jury must weigh this critical question.

Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, consider the issue of the Free Repair Program. Apple had extended an avenue of redress, one which Mr. Whitman now claims ignorance of. This begs the question: Is it reasonable to indict a company for a lack of communication when that very communication was accessible and readily available?

We must not lose sight of the core issue at hand. The MacBook Pro's alleged shortcomings form the crux of Mr. Whitman's claims. Yet, let us recall that the initial case's outcome favored Apple, reinforcing the integrity of our design. The butterfly's wings may flutter, but they do not disrupt the sturdy foundation upon which our products are built.

In conclusion, my esteemed colleagues, we stand resolute in defending Apple's reputation and integrity. The counterclaims brought forth cast a shadow on the motives of Mr. Whitman, raising questions of intent and purpose. The scales of justice must be finely calibrated, accounting not just for design flaws, but for the nuances of human intention. We implore you to weigh these arguments with judicious discernment as we continue to navigate this legal landscape.

Prosecution Counsel for Mr. Whitman - Mr. Douglas:

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, let us untangle the complexities that shroud this courtroom today. My client, Mr. Whitman, stood in the face of adversity, seeking justice against a technological behemoth that he believed had wronged him.

We concede the triumph of Apple in the initial case. But, as the curtain lifts on the counterclaims, a different narrative takes center stage. We hear whispers of "public defamation," "misuse of case," and "loss of goodwill." Yet, we must remind ourselves that Mr. Whitman's actions were borne from a genuine desire to spotlight the issues that plagued the MacBook Pro 2017.

Consider the very genesis of this legal saga – the faulty Butterfly Keyboard and DisplayGate issues. Mr. Whitman's actions did not emerge in isolation but in response to a design that bore serious repercussions for users at large. It was this realization that propelled him to seek remedies, not only for himself but for a community ensnared in the web of the ButterflyGate.

In dissecting the "misuse of case," we must not lose sight of the forest for the trees. Mr. Whitman's actions were not those of a cunning strategist, but rather of an individual who sought accountability and transparency. Advisors or not, his resolve stemmed from a genuine commitment to shed light on the matter at hand.

And what of the "loss of goodwill"? A company of Apple's stature must recognize that it holds a moral imperative to its customers. When design flaws emerge and customer trust wavers, the onus lies on the company to stand accountable. The Free Repair Program, while existing, must also be examined in context. Was it prominently publicized? Did it mitigate the frustrations experienced by users like Mr. Whitman?

Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is not to tarnish Apple's reputation but to uphold the principles of justice. The complexities of human intention, coupled with the far-reaching implications of design flaws, must be dissected with a keen and compassionate eye. As we delve into these arguments, let us remember that justice seeks not merely to weigh the scales, but to illuminate the path forward for all parties involved.

Defense Counsel for Apple - Ms. Chambers (Closing Statement):

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the courtroom echoes with the reverberations of two contrasting narratives. In the initial case, Apple stood unyielding in the face of scrutiny, emerging victorious, and reaffirming the integrity of our product. Yet, as the counterclaims took center stage, a new chapter unfolded - one that paints a nuanced portrait of intentions and consequences.

We acknowledge that Mr. Whitman embarked on a journey he believed was driven by justice. However, let us not be swayed by sentiment alone. The very essence of these counterclaims - "misuse of case" and "public defamation" - resonates with an element of strategy and calculated intent.

Did Mr. Whitman's actions arise solely from a desire to right a perceived wrong, or did they form a calculated bid for personal elevation? This, dear jurors, is the fulcrum upon which the counterclaims rest. The proverbial butterfly's wings may flutter, but it is the orchestration of the entire symphony that shapes the narrative.

Consider the issue of communication - the existence of the Free Repair Program, while accessible, was not universally known. Is it prudent to hold a company accountable for a communication oversight when avenues for redress were provided, albeit subtly?

In rendering your verdict, we implore you to weigh these arguments with measured consideration. Justice requires us to discern not just the design flaws, but the complexities of human intention that reverberate through these hallowed halls. Apple, guided by unwavering principles, seeks not only to uphold its reputation but to bring clarity to a narrative ensnared in intricate shades of gray.

Prosecution Counsel for Mr. Whitman - Mr. Douglas (Closing Statement):

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, as this trial culminates, let us reflect on the heart of the matter - a man, Mr. Whitman, who dared to challenge a corporate giant. The courtroom has witnessed a symphony of arguments, a duet of narratives that reveal the complex interplay between design flaws and human intention.

Mr. Whitman's actions stemmed from a genuine quest for justice, a desire to amplify the voices of countless others ensnared in the web of design deficiencies. His actions were not driven by cunning strategy but by the principles of accountability and transparency.

The counterclaims lay bare Apple's perception of the events, but let us not overlook the potent undercurrents of loss - not just of financial stability but of goodwill and respect. A company's reputation is tethered to its products, its ethos, and its moral obligations. Mr. Whitman's journey resonates with this ethos - a fight not merely for personal redress, but for a community entrapped in a struggle for recognition.

We acknowledge the existence of the Free Repair Program, yet the question lingers - was its presence adequately communicated to those who needed it most? Responsibility does not evaporate with provision; it expands to encompass the duty to ensure accessibility.

Ladies and gentlemen, your verdict shall set the course for justice. As you deliberate, let empathy be your compass. Consider the motives, the intentions, and the broader implications that reverberate from this courtroom. It is not merely a battle between an individual and a corporation; it is a testament to the ideals of accountability, transparency, and the pursuit of a better world for all.

In the canvas of this trial, may your verdict paint a portrait that upholds the pillars of justice, navigates the nuances of design and intention, and forges a path that illuminates the way forward for all who seek it.

Sub-case File of an Alternate Timeline (Case 5.1.2)

Resolution and Post-Trial Dispute:

The culmination of the legal proceedings saw Mr. Whitman emerge victorious, vindicating his claims against Apple and securing a favorable judgment. The court ruled in his favor, recognizing the substantial damages incurred as a consequence of the MacBook Pro 2017's deficiencies, particularly the Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism and DisplayGate issues. However, the resolution of the case marked not the cessation of the conflict, but rather the commencement of a new phase, characterized by a post-trial dispute that cast its shadow over the broader legal victory.

In accordance with the court's judgment, Mr. Whitman availed himself of the opportunity to seek remedy through Apple's Free Repair Program (FRP), a provision that aimed to rectify the shortcomings of the afflicted MacBook. However, this subsequent chapter was marred by a fresh dilemma - Apple's decision to withhold servicing the device in question.

Apple's rationale for this refusal pivoted upon a belief that the requisite compensation had already been conferred to the consumer as part of the overarching court settlement. According to Apple's interpretation, the funds extended to Mr. Whitman were intended to serve as a comprehensive resolution, encompassing both financial restitution and, by implication, the necessary repairs. The company posited that Mr. Whitman was obligated to deploy the financial compensation received from the parent case to fund the needed repairs.

Conversely, Mr. Whitman contested Apple's interpretation, asserting that no explicit provisions within the court settlement dictated the manner in which the funds were to be utilized. In his view, the compensation awarded was designated to address the financial and emotional toll inflicted by the MacBook Pro 2017's deficiencies, but it did not preclude him from pursuing restorative actions, such as repairs or future trade-ins.

In light of this impasse, Mr. Whitman lodged a fresh grievance, asserting his entitlement to redress through Apple's provision of the repairs he sought. He also advocated for an additional safeguard - a commitment from Apple to provide a free trade-in option in the event of a recurrence of the malfunctions. By positioning these demands as integral components of his pursuit for justice, Mr. Whitman sought to ensure that his victory within the courtroom translated into tangible solutions in the real-world context.

Subsequent Dispute and Mr. Whitman's Demands:

Apple, despite Mr. Whitman's legal victory, refused to service the MacBook Pro 2017 through the Free Repair Program (FRP), citing its belief that the compensation received from the parent case settlement covered the necessary repairs.

Apple maintained that the provided funds were intended to encompass all aspects of resolution, including reparations for the MacBook's deficiencies.

Mr. Whitman contested Apple's stance, arguing that the court settlement did not explicitly mandate the use of compensation for repairs and that he retained the right to seek remedies beyond financial restitution.

Mr. Whitman demanded that Apple fulfill its obligation to service his MacBook through the FRP, rectifying the long-standing issues that prompted the legal action.

Additionally, Mr. Whitman requested that Apple commit to a free trade-in option, ensuring that any future occurrences of the same problems would be addressed without further financial burden on his part.

The post-trial dispute cast a shadow over the achieved victory, underscoring the complexity and multifaceted nature of the legal battle. The contentious dialogue between Mr. Whitman and Apple entered a new phase, one that hinged upon the interpretation and execution of the court's judgment, as well as the broader commitment to justice and accountability in the realm of consumer rights and corporate responsibility.

In the Court…

Plaintiff's Lawyer (Mr. Whitman's Representative):

Ladies and gentlemen of the court, today we stand before you to address a matter of utmost significance - the pursuit of justice, accountability, and the protection of consumer rights. The honorable court has already adjudicated in favor of our client, Mr. Whitman, recognizing the egregious shortcomings of the MacBook Pro 2017 - a device that failed him in his professional endeavors and brought about a cascade of unfortunate events.

Now, we find ourselves entangled in a post-trial dispute, one that speaks volumes about the responsibility borne by corporate entities to address the grievances of their patrons. The crux of this dispute lies in Apple's refusal to extend the rightful remedy of repair, as stipulated in the Free Repair Program (FRP). Apple contends that the compensation awarded in the parent case is all-encompassing, designed to cover reparations as well. However, where, we ask, is this clause within the court's judgment that unequivocally mandates the allocation of funds solely for repairs?

Our contention is clear: The court settlement was intended to alleviate the extensive damages inflicted upon Mr. Whitman, encompassing both financial restitution and the repair of his device. Apple's insistence to the contrary is nothing short of an attempt to sidestep its duty to rectify the defects that it itself acknowledged.

Furthermore, let us not overlook the pressing demand for a free trade-in option in the event of a recurrence of these issues. This is not merely a matter of convenience but a proactive step towards averting the repetition of Mr. Whitman's distressing experience. By refusing this demand, Apple displays an alarming lack of commitment to addressing its product's inherent flaws and demonstrates a disregard for the well-being and satisfaction of its customers.

We stand here today not only to ensure that Mr. Whitman receives the justice he rightly deserves but also to underscore the larger principles at stake - consumer trust, corporate accountability, and the pursuit of excellence. It is our assertion that Apple's position is untenable, and we implore this court to uphold the spirit of its initial judgment and compel Apple to honor its commitment to rectification and prevention.

Defendant's Lawyer (Apple's Representative):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the court, the resolution of this case has already affirmed Mr. Whitman's grievances and held Apple accountable for the unfortunate course of events he experienced. The court's judgment acknowledged the problems he encountered and deemed them valid, leading to the awarding of compensation that was intended to serve as comprehensive redress for the damages sustained.

Apple's stance is clear and grounded in the interpretation of the court's intent. The compensation provided in the parent case settlement was intended to provide a holistic solution, one that encompasses financial restitution, emotional distress, and the provision of reparations. Nowhere within the judgment was it stipulated that these funds were solely for financial compensation. It is a reasonable presumption that reparative measures were encompassed within this broader scope.

The court must consider the broader implications of acceding to Mr. Whitman's demands. To oblige Apple to undertake repairs using separate funds, as he requests, would be to effectively disregard the court's initial intention in awarding compensation. It would also establish a problematic precedent, wherein plaintiffs could circumvent the purpose of financial restitution and instead funnel these funds into selective repairs.

Regarding the demand for a free trade-in option, it must be underscored that Apple's products are designed with rigorous quality control standards and enhancements. The provision of a free trade-in option could inadvertently incentivize the misuse of products and undermine the ethos of responsible consumer behavior. Apple, while committed to customer satisfaction, must also preserve the integrity of its product offerings and ensure that they are not subject to undue exploitation.

In conclusion, the post-trial dispute rests upon an interpretation of the court's judgment and the broader principles of corporate responsibility. Apple's position is grounded in reason, respecting the intention behind the awarded compensation. We implore the court to consider the wider implications of acceding to Mr. Whitman's demands and to uphold the principles of fairness, accountability, and responsible consumer-corporate interaction.

Courtroom Scenario:

The courtroom is hushed, expectant faces turned toward the front, where the judge presides with a grave yet attentive expression. Mr. Whitman sits alongside his legal representative, poised and resolute, his gaze alternating between the legal teams and the judge. Apple's representative stands nearby, exuding an air of confidence, flanked by a team of legal advisors. The atmosphere is charged with tension, a palpable sense of anticipation as the final arguments are poised to unfold.

The judge leans forward, signaling the commencement of the closing statements. The air is thick with gravity, and the words spoken in the next few moments will carry the weight of the entire case.

Plaintiff's Lawyer (Mr. Whitman's Representative - Closing Statement):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the court, today we stand at the precipice of a decision that carries profound implications not only for Mr. Whitman but for the very principles that underpin our legal system. The undeniable truth remains that Mr. Whitman, a loyal patron of Apple, found himself entangled in a web of unfortunate circumstances catalyzed by the defective MacBook Pro 2017.

While the court has already acknowledged the legitimacy of his grievances, we now grapple with a post-trial dispute that demands careful consideration. Apple's contention that the court's compensation encompasses the reparations sought is a leap of interpretation that defies reason. The absence of explicit language mandating the allocation of funds solely for repairs is a pivotal point that cannot be overlooked.

In essence, what we seek is not merely financial compensation but the restoration of justice, dignity, and the assurance that such distressing experiences need not befall other consumers. Our demand for a free trade-in option is grounded in a commitment to prevention, a vow that the misfortunes Mr. Whitman endured shall not be repeated. Apple's refusal to extend this olive branch speaks volumes about its willingness to confront its own shortcomings.

We implore the court to stand firm, to safeguard the rights of the consumer, and to ensure that justice is served. Let this verdict echo not only within these walls but resonate as a beacon of accountability, reminding corporate entities of their duty to uphold the trust of their patrons.

Defendant's Lawyer (Apple's Representative - Closing Statement):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the court, the course of this trial has taken us through the intricate realm of corporate responsibility, consumer rights, and the convergence of law and technology. It is essential that we remember the essence of the court's initial judgment - an acknowledgment of Mr. Whitman's grievances and the provision of comprehensive compensation.

Apple's position is rooted in the interpretation of this judgment, wherein it is reasonable to assume that reparations were included within the purview of awarded funds. The court's intent was not to segregate these funds but to holistically address the damages incurred. To stray from this interpretation would set a troubling precedent, compromising the very essence of the court's resolution.

As for the demand for a free trade-in option, Apple remains steadfast in its commitment to quality and responsible consumer interactions. While a trade-in option is a noble pursuit, it must be approached with caution, lest it undermine the integrity of consumer behavior and product utilization.

In closing, we beseech the court to uphold the principles of reason, fairness, and the integrity of the court's original judgment. Let us not lose sight of the core purpose - to address Mr. Whitman's grievances while preserving the broader tenets of justice, corporate responsibility, and responsible consumer conduct.

Judge's Reflection and Decision:

The judge leans back, deep in thought, considering the impassioned arguments presented by both legal teams. The weight of the case hangs heavily in the air as they deliberate the implications of their decision. After a brief pause, the judge raises their head, and a solemn resolve settles over them.

"Members of the court, it is with careful consideration and a profound appreciation for the principles at stake that I render this decision," the judge begins. "The court acknowledges the validity of the demands put forth by both sides and underscores the importance of preserving justice, accountability, and the rights of the consumer."

The courtroom holds its collective breath, and the anticipation is palpable.

"In light of the complex nature of the case and the principles it encompasses, the court issues the following ruling…"

And with those words, the judge's pronouncement brings a decisive conclusion to a legal saga that resonates far beyond the walls of the courtroom, leaving an indelible mark on the landscape of consumer rights, corporate responsibility, and the pursuit of justice.

Courtroom Drama Example

[Opening Statements]

Plaintiff's Lawyer (PL):

Ladies and gentlemen of the court, distinguished members of the jury, today we present before you a case that underscores the vital nexus between technology and accountability, loyalty and disillusionment. The tale of Mr. Whitman, a devoted patron of Apple's innovations, is one that resonates with many - a tale of trust misplaced, of promises unfulfilled, and of a dream career derailed by a string of technological missteps. Our narrative begins with a consumer who believed, and in that belief, found himself ensnared within the intricacies of the "ButterflyGate." We shall expose the repercussions that extend far beyond a mere malfunctioning device. Instead, we unveil a story that examines the profound impact of these technological failures on an individual's life, livelihood, and reputation. We shall provide compelling evidence that Apple's MacBook Pro 2017, laden with its notorious DisplayGate and Butterfly Keyboard deficiencies, breached the sacred covenant of trust with its users, leading to devastating consequences. We shall reveal how a dedicated employee was cast adrift on the tumultuous sea of professional upheaval, all stemming from the failings of a single device.

Defendant's Lawyer (DL):

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, your honor, today we stand in defense of a tech giant that has revolutionized the very fabric of our digital existence. Our esteemed client, Apple, has long been a beacon of innovation and integrity, ardently committed to enriching lives through cutting-edge technology. We enter this courtroom to refute the allegations levelled by Mr. Whitman, a valued customer who undoubtedly experienced challenges with his MacBook Pro 2017. Yet, let us not forget the essence of responsibility that underpins both sides of this legal discourse. Our contention is simple - Apple diligently offered a Free Repair Program (FRP) in response to these malfunctions, seeking to address the very issues at the heart of this case. Mr. Whitman, however, declined this opportunity, opting instead to pursue litigation. It is our assertion that the grievance was adequately addressed through compensation, and that the refusal to utilize the FRP cannot be foisted upon Apple's shoulders. We are poised to demonstrate that our client exercised due diligence by providing solutions, and we shall expose the absence of legal obligation to offer further reparations.

[Examination of Mr. Whitman]

PL: (Addressing Mr. Whitman) Mr. Whitman, can you recount the trajectory of events that transpired upon your acquisition of the MacBook Pro 2017?

Mr. Whitman (MW): Certainly. I purchased the MacBook Pro 2017 with utmost trust in Apple's brand, only to be plagued by incessant issues - the erratic Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism and the DisplayGate debacle.

PL: And how did these issues affect your personal and professional life?

MW: The 'e' key malfunction led to an unfortunate email exchange with my manager, resulting in my termination and the loss of my reputation. The DisplayGate issue further deteriorated the device's usability, creating professional setbacks and financial loss.

DL: (Cross-examining) Mr. Whitman, is it not true that Apple offered a Free Repair Program (FRP) to address these problems?

MW: Yes, they did, but I believed the court settlement adequately compensated me for the damages suffered.

[Expert Witness Testimonies]

PL: (Addressing Expert Witness) Your honor, may we call upon Dr. Expert, an industry authority, to testify regarding the recurrent malfunctions affecting the MacBook Pro 2017?

Dr. Expert (DE): Certainly. The "ButterflyGate" problems in the MacBook Pro 2017 are well-documented and have led to widespread disruptions in users' professional and personal lives. The display and keyboard issues are not merely technological glitches; they have dire real-world consequences.

DL: (Cross-examining) Dr. Expert, while these issues exist, is it not true that Apple instituted a Free Repair Program (FRP) to rectify them?

DE: Yes, they did, but the efficacy of communication and dissemination of this program is questionable.

[Courtroom Drama]

PL: (Presenting evidence) Your honor, we submit as evidence a lack of explicit specification in the parent case settlement regarding the utilization of compensation for repairs.

DL: (Counter-arguing) Your honor, while the court settlement may not explicitly dictate the use of compensation, it is evident that Apple offered the FRP as a comprehensive solution.

[Closing Arguments]

PL: (Summarizing) Ladies and gentlemen, our case rests not merely on technology but on the essence of trust, responsibility, and accountability. Mr. Whitman's career and reputation were irrevocably marred by the MacBook Pro 2017's failings. Apple's provision of a Free Repair Program (FRP) does not absolve them of their duty to address the far-reaching consequences of their technological mishaps. We implore you to uphold justice by demanding restitution and safeguards for future instances.

DL: (Concluding) Your honor, esteemed members of the jury, our client, Apple, is a paragon of innovation and commitment to its customers. While Mr. Whitman faced challenges, the solution was proffered in the form of the FRP. The court settlement's compensation is a comprehensive resolution, and the refusal to utilize the FRP cannot be attributed to our client. We ask you to consider the context of responsibility and accountability in rendering your verdict.

[Deliberation and Verdict]

In this courtroom battle, the lawyers on both sides artfully weave together the intricate web of facts, emotions, legal precedents, and ethical considerations. As the jury deliberates, the fate of Mr. Whitman's pursuit of justice hangs in the balance, while the broader implications for consumer rights and corporate responsibility reverberate throughout the courtroom.

Parent Case 2 (Alternate Timeline) File Excerpt - Case 5.2

(If history is changed at the mentioned place in Parent Case 1…)

Plaintiff's Efforts for Redress and Apple's Response:

Undeterred by the persisting malfunctions and driven by a determination to regain the functionality of his MacBook Pro 2017, Mr. Whitman took proactive measures to address the issues. In a bid to capitalize on Apple's goodwill and its purported commitment to customer satisfaction, he promptly dispatched his malfunctioning device to Apple's designated repair center. This decisive action was prompted by Apple's issuance of the Free Repair Program (FRP), specifically tailored to address the chronic maladies known as the DisplayGate and ButterflyGate issues that had plagued his MacBook.

With measured anticipation, Mr. Whitman awaited the outcome of the repair, hoping to finally reclaim a fully functional device. However, his hopes were dashed when he discovered that the problems endured unabated even after the supposed remediation efforts. A disheartening realization descended upon him – his MacBook's ills remained uncured.

In an unforeseen and regrettable turn of events, the timing of his endeavor exacerbated the situation. Mere days prior to his attempt at redemption, the expiration of Apple's Free Repair Program came to pass. The expiration of this program had ominous implications, as Apple, citing the passage of this pivotal deadline, declined to extend the reparative gesture. Instead, they presented Mr. Whitman with a substantial financial burden – a hefty fee amounting to $450 – in exchange for the restoration of his device's functionality.

Indignant and spurred into action by the perceived injustice, Mr. Whitman embarked on a journey of discovery, intent on unveiling the broader scope of the issue. In his pursuit, he unearthed a sobering revelation – that a multitude of fellow Apple users had traversed a similar path of attempted repair, only to find themselves ensnared in an analogous cycle of recurring issues.

Strengthened by the collective resolve of multiple aggrieved parties, including Mr. Whitman, a collaborative lawsuit was initiated against Apple. The legal action contended that the remediation attempted by Apple's repair center was fundamentally flawed and had not successfully addressed the underlying concerns. The plaintiffs articulated a compelling argument, seeking redress in the form of a refund for the repair fees.

The plaintiffs further contested the temporal constraints imposed by the deadline of the Free Repair Program, asserting that the stipulated timeframe for remediation was unreasonably constricted. They posited that this deadline should have been synchronously aligned with the cessation of security updates to the MacBook Pro 2017, a critical juncture that would, by its nature, herald the conclusion of Apple's responsibility to sustain device functionality.

In response to the collective lawsuit, Apple proffered a multifaceted defense. Apple argued that a trade-in option had been available to the plaintiffs at the time of repair, serving as a viable alternative to mere remediation. Furthermore, they contended that an extension of the deadline to a prolonged span of approximately a decade would engender severe fiscal repercussions for the company. Such an extension, Apple asserted, would precipitate challenges in sourcing the requisite spare parts as time elapsed, thereby jeopardizing the feasibility of the endeavor. The resultant financial strain, Apple claimed, would have an adverse impact on the development and allocation of resources towards other devices and initiatives.

Plaintiff's Actions and Arguments:

Availed of Apple's Free Repair Program (FRP) to address DisplayGate and ButterflyGate issues.

Despite repair efforts, persistent problems prompted Mr. Whitman to discover that the malfunctions remained unresolved.

Apple declined free repair due to the program's expiration, subsequently charging a substantial $450 repair fee.

Discovered a widespread pattern of similar issues faced by other Apple users, culminating in a collective lawsuit against Apple.

Plaintiffs sought a refund for repair fees and contended that the FRP deadline was unreasonably limited, proposing alignment with security updates as a more appropriate endpoint.

Apple's Defense:

Apple proposed a trade-in option as an alternative to repair.

Asserted that extending the repair deadline to a decade would be economically unsustainable and hinder the company's overall development.

Raised concerns about the availability of spare parts and the potential impact on other company initiatives.

The dispute at hand encapsulates the intricate balance between consumer rights, technological development, and fiscal viability, presenting a complex legal and ethical conundrum for resolution.

Court Proceedings

Opening Statements - Plaintiff's Lawyer:

Ladies and gentlemen of the court, today we present a case that brings into sharp focus the intersection of trust, consumer rights, and corporate responsibility. Our esteemed client, Mr. Whitman, an avid and loyal user of Apple products, found himself in possession of a MacBook Pro 2017 - a device that promised innovation and performance. Little did he know that this very device, lauded for its design, would become a harbinger of distress and professional upheaval.

Mr. Whitman's MacBook Pro, obtained through Apple's official channels, bore the hallmarks of excellence, or so he thought. However, as time unfolded, he discovered that his trust had been betrayed by the manifestation of the notorious DisplayGate issue, causing his MacBook's display to falter over prolonged periods of usage. Furthermore, the innovative Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism, intended to enhance the device's sleekness, proved to be a double-edged sword, as it fell prey to dust accumulation, rendering the keyboard erratic and unreliable.

It was in the midst of his daily professional routine that the culmination of these issues reached a critical juncture. The once-reliable 'e' key, a fundamental tool of communication, failed to respond. The ramifications of this seemingly minor glitch cascaded into an email exchange that led to Mr. Whitman's termination based on allegations of disrespect. His attempts to resolve the issues through Apple's Free Repair Program (FRP) were marred by recurring problems, and he was left with a hefty repair bill.

As Mr. Whitman researched further, he unearthed a pattern - a community of Apple users ensnared by the very same maladies. Fueled by a collective quest for justice, they stand united in the pursuit of redress. We assert that Apple's repair efforts were insufficient, and we implore this court to recognize the gravity of the situation. Our argument rests on the premise that the deadline for the FRP was unjustly imposed, and we contend that its alignment with the cessation of security updates would have been more reasonable.

Opening Statements - Defendant's Lawyer:

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, we approach this case with a deep appreciation for the experiences faced by Mr. Whitman and the collective plaintiffs. Yet, we must strive for an equitable perspective that considers the complexities inherent in both the consumer technology landscape and the practical challenges of corporate sustainability.

Apple, a leader in technological innovation, is committed to providing top-tier products and experiences to its customers. Mr. Whitman's MacBook Pro 2017 was part of a long line of cutting-edge devices, yet its inherent issues were an unfortunate outlier. We acknowledge the DisplayGate and Butterfly Keyboard problems, commonly referred to as ButterflyGate, and the inconveniences they imposed on users.

The repairs attempted through Apple's Free Repair Program aimed at rectifying these issues were performed in good faith, and a trade-in option was available for those seeking an alternative route. The question before us, however, is whether Apple's efforts were genuinely insufficient or whether these challenges are inherent in the progression of technology.

Apple must navigate a delicate balance between consumer satisfaction and fiscal prudence. Extending the FRP deadline for a prolonged period, as the plaintiffs suggest, would introduce unsustainable financial strain. The lifecycle of technological components poses a significant challenge, as spare parts become scarcer with the passage of time, threatening to impede other critical aspects of innovation and development.

Ladies and gentlemen, as we delve into the intricacies of this case, we implore you to consider the broader implications of your decision. We acknowledge the grievances faced by the plaintiffs but assert that Apple's actions were reasonable given the constraints of the technological ecosystem.

Plaintiff's Lawyer - Rebuttal:

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, while we appreciate the defense's perspective, it is imperative to underscore that our argument seeks to strike a balance between consumer rights and the corporate landscape. Our position is rooted in the principle of accountability. Our client, Mr. Whitman, and fellow plaintiffs, were presented with a device that held immense promise. Instead, they encountered a litany of issues that eroded both their professional standing and personal trust.

The contention surrounding the FRP deadline is critical. We assert that an extension, aligned with the cessation of security updates, represents a fair and justifiable measure. It is not merely a matter of convenience but rather a reflection of a commitment to address the grievances that have persisted beyond initial repair attempts.

We implore this court to recognize the plaintiffs' collective plight and their pursuit of justice. Our argument embodies the voice of countless users who found themselves ensnared by the ButterflyGate. Let us not lose sight of the fact that this case transcends individual experiences; it speaks to a wider discourse on corporate responsibility and consumer protection.

Defendant's Lawyer - Rebuttal:

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, our contention remains rooted in the practical realities of technological innovation and the challenges faced by corporations striving to deliver exceptional experiences. While we acknowledge the issues faced by Mr. Whitman and the plaintiffs, we must weigh these against the broader context.

Apple's commitment to customer satisfaction is underscored by the Free Repair Program, and the option of trade-in demonstrates a genuine willingness to address concerns. The suggested extension of the FRP deadline, while well-intentioned, poses financial and logistical complexities that could hinder the very innovation that underpins our technological progress.

In the pursuit of justice, we must also consider the implications of our decisions on broader industry dynamics. As we navigate this discourse, let us not lose sight of the delicate equilibrium between consumer rights and the pragmatic challenges faced by corporations.

Closing Statements - Plaintiff's Lawyer:

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, the essence of this case rests not solely on the imperfections of a single device but on the principles that govern the interaction between consumer and corporation. Our client, Mr. Whitman, along with fellow plaintiffs, sought not only functional devices but also a sense of trust and reliability.

The issues they encountered were not isolated occurrences but rather symptomatic of systemic deficiencies. Our argument underscores the responsibility of corporations to rectify issues adequately and justly, irrespective of the fiscal challenges. The proposed alignment of the FRP deadline with security updates is a logical and equitable measure that seeks to address these concerns without compromising technological advancement.

In rendering your decision, we implore you to consider the legacy of this case. It is not solely about rectifying Mr. Whitman's MacBook; it is about reaffirming the principles of accountability and ensuring that corporations stand true to their commitments to consumers.

Closing Statements - Defendant's Lawyer:

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, we appreciate the gravity of this case and its implications for both individuals and the industry at large. Apple remains steadfast in its commitment to delivering excellence and satisfying customers' needs.

While the issues faced by Mr. Whitman and the plaintiffs are undeniable, we must remember that technological progress is a dynamic and complex endeavor. The challenges presented by the ButterflyGate are not unique to Apple but underscore the inherent complexities of innovation.

In rendering your decision, we ask that you weigh these considerations thoughtfully. As we aspire to justice, let us also recognize the broader context in which this case unfolds - a landscape of technological progress, corporate responsibility, and the pursuit of a delicate equilibrium.

Sub-case 1 of PC2 → File Excerpt (Case 5.2.1)

Sub-Case: Counter-Suit by Apple and Mr. Whitman's Defense

Following the conclusion of the initial case, in which Mr. Whitman and the collective plaintiffs sought reparations for the deficiencies in their MacBook Pro 2017 devices, a remarkable twist ensued. The court, in its wisdom, ruled in favor of Apple, acknowledging the multifaceted challenges posed by technological progress and the pragmatic considerations that underpinned Apple's actions.

In a surprising turn of events, Apple chose to counter-sue Mr. Whitman on an array of charges that included Public Defamation, Loss of Good Will, Misuse of case for Popularity, and financial losses incurred by the company. These charges were framed against the backdrop of Mr. Whitman's vocal stance on the deficiencies of the MacBook Pro 2017, which had formed the basis of the initial collective lawsuit.

Apple's Counter-Suit Allegations:

Public Defamation: Apple asserts that Mr. Whitman's public allegations and portrayal of the MacBook's issues as endemic to the company's products have led to a disparagement of the brand, causing unwarranted harm to its reputation.

Loss of Good Will: Apple contends that the negative discourse surrounding the MacBook's deficiencies, perpetuated by Mr. Whitman's actions, has eroded the company's good will and standing among consumers.

Misuse for Popularity: Apple alleges that Mr. Whitman, in raising the parent case, opportunistically exploited the legal proceedings to enhance his own popularity and standing, rather than with a genuine intent for redress.

Financial Losses: Apple claims that the collective actions of Mr. Whitman and the plaintiffs, in tandem with the widespread media coverage and negative sentiment, led to substantial financial losses for the company. These losses encompass legal charges incurred during the parent case, as well as drops in the company's stock market valuation.

In response to these serious allegations, Mr. Whitman offers a robust defense that hinges on the pursuit of justice and accountability. He contends that his actions were motivated by a sincere desire to address the issues faced by him and other users of the MacBook Pro 2017. Mr. Whitman asserts that his decision to raise the parent case was guided by advice from well-meaning individuals who recognized the gravity of the deficiencies and the potential for collective action.

Furthermore, Mr. Whitman maintains that his intention was never to vilify Apple but rather to bring to light the very issues that necessitated the parent case. He argues that Apple should bear responsibility for the faulty design of the MacBook, which was the impetus for the collective lawsuit. In this context, Mr. Whitman presents a counter-argument that the public discourse he sparked is a testament to his commitment to consumer advocacy and corporate accountability.

Mr. Whitman's Defense:

Advice and Intent: Mr. Whitman asserts that his actions were prompted by advice from individuals who recognized the widespread nature of the MacBook's deficiencies. He maintains that his intent was driven by a genuine desire to address the issues and initiate meaningful change.

Transparency and Advocacy: Mr. Whitman contends that his public discourse was an expression of transparency and advocacy, rather than an attempt to defame Apple. He highlights that raising awareness of the problems was a critical step toward holding the company accountable.

Corporate Responsibility: Mr. Whitman posits that Apple's counter-suit overlooks the larger issue of corporate responsibility. He argues that his actions were a natural response to the inherent design flaws in the MacBook Pro 2017, which necessitated the parent case in the first place.

Financial Consequences: In acknowledging the financial consequences outlined by Apple, Mr. Whitman emphasizes that these losses were a direct result of the company's decision to defend itself against the collective lawsuit. He maintains that his actions were a catalyst for positive change and that his pursuit of justice was not intended to inflict harm on Apple's financial standing.

As we delve into the complexities of this counter-suit, it is imperative to recognize the nuances of Mr. Whitman's actions and intentions. His defense underscores the delicate balance between consumer advocacy, corporate accountability, and the broader implications of raising awareness about inherent deficiencies in technological products.

Courtroom Proceedings

Opening Statements - Apple's Lawyer (Counter-Suit):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, we find ourselves at an unprecedented juncture – one that explores the boundaries of accountability and the repercussions of actions that extend beyond the initial case. We stand before you on behalf of Apple, a beacon of innovation, and a pioneer in technological progress. Our counter-suit against Mr. Whitman is an effort to underscore the broader implications of actions taken in the realm of consumer discourse.

While our victory in the initial case demonstrated the complexities of technological advancement, the subsequent counter-suit illuminates the far-reaching consequences of disseminating public allegations and fostering a negative discourse. We assert that Mr. Whitman's actions transcended the confines of individual dissatisfaction and ventured into a realm that imperiled Apple's reputation, financial stability, and corporate goodwill.

We shall address the charges of Public Defamation, Loss of Good Will, Misuse of case for Popularity, and financial losses incurred by the company in our argument. It is our position that Mr. Whitman's actions, while stemming from genuine grievances, ventured into the domain of irresponsibility, potentially undermining the very foundations of trust upon which consumer relationships are built.

Apple's Argument:

Public Defamation: Mr. Whitman's vocal stance on the MacBook's deficiencies, when characterized as endemic to Apple products, has led to an unjust and unwarranted tarnishing of the brand's reputation, thereby causing tangible harm.

Loss of Good Will: The negative discourse fostered by Mr. Whitman's allegations has eroded the company's good will and standing among consumers, undermining the years of commitment to excellence and innovation.

Misuse for Popularity: We assert that Mr. Whitman, in leveraging the legal proceedings for personal popularity, has utilized the case to serve alternative motives, rather than seeking authentic redress.

Financial Losses: The collective impact of Mr. Whitman's actions, alongside the associated media coverage and negative sentiment, led to substantial financial losses, encompassing legal fees incurred during the parent case and a decline in Apple's stock market valuation.

Our case seeks to emphasize the importance of transparency and responsibility in the realm of consumer discourse. As we proceed, we implore you to consider the potential ripple effects of Mr. Whitman's actions, not only on Apple as a corporation but on the broader landscape of consumer relations.

Opening Statements - Mr. Whitman's Lawyer (Counter-Suit Defense):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, we find ourselves ensnared in a counter-suit that symbolizes a deeper battle – one that underscores the rights of individuals to hold corporations accountable for design flaws that have far-reaching ramifications. We stand on behalf of Mr. Whitman, a steadfast consumer and a proponent of transparency and justice.

Our defense is anchored in the principles of consumer advocacy and corporate accountability. Mr. Whitman's actions were driven by a genuine intent to address the inherent deficiencies of the MacBook Pro 2017. His advocacy, while vocal, was not an exercise in defamation but rather an earnest effort to shed light on issues that impacted him and a collective community of Apple users.

We shall address the charges brought forth by Apple and present our argument against them. Our assertion is that Mr. Whitman's actions were rooted in a commitment to transparency and accountability, and that he should not be penalized for raising legitimate concerns within the public domain.

Mr. Whitman's Defense:

Advice and Intent: Mr. Whitman's actions were prompted by well-meaning advice and a genuine intent to address the widespread deficiencies of the MacBook Pro 2017, rather than tarnishing Apple's reputation.

Transparency and Advocacy: Mr. Whitman's public discourse aimed to expose issues and foster corporate accountability, rather than defame Apple. His actions reflect a commitment to transparency, an essential tenet of consumer relations.

Corporate Responsibility: Our defense contends that Apple's counter-suit overlooks the underlying issue of corporate responsibility. Mr. Whitman's actions were a response to design flaws that necessitated the parent case, and his advocacy aimed to ensure accountability.

Financial Consequences: While Mr. Whitman acknowledges the financial impact, we maintain that these losses were an outcome of Apple's choice to defend itself against the collective lawsuit. His pursuit of justice should not be construed as an attempt to inflict harm on Apple's financial standing.

In this counter-suit, we unveil the essence of a larger discourse – the balance between individual rights, consumer advocacy, and the broader implications of raising awareness about design deficiencies. As we proceed, we urge you to consider the principles that underpin the pursuit of justice, transparency, and the responsibility of corporations to uphold their commitments.

Closing Statements - Apple's Lawyer (Counter-Suit):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, the counter-suit before us encapsulates a crucial juncture in the ongoing discourse between individual rights and corporate responsibility. Apple's pursuit of justice through this counter-suit is not a mere act of defense; it underscores the profound implications of public discourse on a corporation's reputation, financial stability, and the delicate equilibrium that governs consumer relations.

We have presented our case, articulating the charges of Public Defamation, Loss of Good Will, Misuse of case for Popularity, and financial losses. Through this lens, we highlight the critical importance of transparent and responsible consumer discourse. The ripple effects of Mr. Whitman's actions extend beyond the confines of this courtroom, potentially shaping the landscape of future interactions between consumers and corporations.

In rendering your decision, we urge you to consider the far-reaching consequences of individual actions on a broader scale. Our society is built on the tenets of accountability and responsibility, both for corporations and individuals alike. We contend that the principles of transparency and trust should remain unshaken, ensuring that the rights and responsibilities of all stakeholders are upheld.

Closing Statements - Mr. Whitman's Lawyer (Counter-Suit Defense):

Your Honor, esteemed members of the jury, the counter-suit before us embodies a fundamental struggle – the right of an individual to raise legitimate concerns about products that impact their lives. Mr. Whitman's defense rests not solely on his actions but on the principles that define the relationship between consumers and corporations.

Throughout this counter-suit, we have emphasized that Mr. Whitman's advocacy was rooted in transparency, accountability, and the pursuit of justice. His intent was to hold Apple responsible for the design flaws that necessitated the parent case, not to defame the corporation. The charges presented by Apple underscore the inherent tension between individual rights and corporate actions.

As you deliberate, remember that the essence of this counter-suit transcends the courtroom. It speaks to the power of individual voices in shaping corporate accountability and the responsible progression of technological innovation. We implore you to recognize the significance of Mr. Whitman's actions as an embodiment of the consumer's right to advocate for transparency and change.

Judge's Instructions:

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you have been presented with a complex and nuanced counter-suit that delves into the interplay between individual actions and corporate consequences. Your task is to consider the charges brought forth by both sides, recognizing the broader implications of your decision on consumer discourse and corporate accountability. As you weigh these considerations, remember that the principles of justice, responsibility, and transparency are integral to the fabric of our society. Your deliberations will shape the outcome of this counter-suit and contribute to the ongoing dialogue between individuals and corporations.

Lawyer’s Up

Tips

Some of these points were given by Shashank anna for Shipwreck, who is two years older than me…

Master Body Language: Move around with energy and confidence. Your body language plays a crucial role in conveying your message effectively.

Clarity is Key: Clearly articulate your points to ensure your message is easily understood and leaves a lasting impact.

Strategic Tone: Utilize a confident and assertive tone, rather than being outright aggressive. Passive-aggressive tones can undermine your professionalism.

Structured Content: Organize your content logically and coherently. A well-structured argument boosts your confidence and makes it easier for the audience to follow your points.

Logical Precision: Avoid overcomplicating your arguments with unnecessary complexity. Focus on clear, concise logic to make your case more compelling.

Exploit Mistakes: Capitalize on your opponent's errors, especially logical fallacies, to strengthen your position and gain an advantage.

Showcase Your Perspective: While focusing on your argument, subtly highlight your strengths and expertise without overshadowing the case. Do not aggressively aim to defame or abuse the opponent.

Fluidity and Creativity: If you face a mental block or gap, weave engaging stories that relate to the topic to maintain the flow and captivate your audience.

Swift Rebuttal: Prevent your opponent from gaining ground by responding promptly and thoughtfully to their points, leaving minimal room for effective comebacks.

Light-hearted Humor: Inject tasteful humor to lighten the mood without detracting from the gravity of your argument.

Quoting Authority: Incorporate relevant quotes from legal experts or authoritative sources to lend weight to your argument.

Global Copyright Awareness: Display a thorough understanding of international copyright laws, particularly those in the US, UK, and India, to strengthen your position on intellectual property matters.

Charismatic Delivery: Engage the audience through charismatic voice modulation, capturing their attention and reinforcing your argument's impact.

Consider Audience Comfort: If you're uncomfortable with the topic, communicate your concerns to the judges professionally, allowing for a topic change.

Emotional Connection: Introduce emotions like empathy, hunger, etc., strategically to evoke a relatable connection with the audience.

Empathy and Sympathy: Elicit sympathy when applicable, highlighting the human aspect to foster a stronger connection with your audience.

Factual Integrity: Base your arguments on accurate and provable facts. Misrepresentation or blatant falsehoods can severely damage your credibility.

Precision in Language: Exercise caution with your words, ensuring they align precisely with your intended message. Avoid irrelevant information that may weaken your case.

Remember that the goal of effective lawyering is to present a compelling and well-supported case while maintaining professionalism and integrity throughout the process. Your success lies in your ability to persuade, inform, and engage your audience while upholding the principles of the legal profession.

Cases to work on

Write a few points on both the sides of the defendant and prosecution, where…

MacBook Gate

Mr. Whitman, a trusted long-time Apple user, bought the MacBook Pro 2017 (Touch Bar version) from Apple directly in 2018. This MacBook is widely regarded to be a huge failure, due to the DisplayGate issue and the faulty design of the Butterfly Keyboard Mechanism. 
The DisplayGate issue caused the display to falter when displaying content after pro-longed time of usage. each time the issue occurred, it would reoccur at a shorter time interval. After a few occurrences, the computer would be literally unusable. The temporary fix was to stop using the computer for a day after each occurrence in order to minimise the chance of the next occurrence. The reason for this issue was a cable that was not designed to withstand repeated use. Whitman noticed this problem, but discarded it as a result of overheating due to his usage.
The Butterfly Keyboard was designed to have minimal travel, in an effort to reduce the thickness of the device. However, the newly designed "butterfly" mechanism would collect dust easily, which would hamper the mechanism and cause the Keyboard to behave erratically. 

After a few days, when Whitman wrote an important email to his manager, the 'e' key didn't respond to the inputs made by Whitman. As Whitman was a skilled typist, he didn't cross-check his email due to his immense trust in his accuracy and on Apple products. When Whitman's manager received the email, he found the email to be "offensive" and terminated Whitman's position on grounds of disrespect. Whitman, later that day, when typing his resume, found out that the 'e' key did not function as expect. Checking this issue on the internet, he discovered that others had the same issues, collectively referred to as the DisplayGate and Butterfly Keyboard issues (henceforth referred to as ButterflyGate). He then immediately:-

…filed a lawsuit against Apple on charges of loss of trust, financial loss, tomfoolery and defamation. He claimed that if the Keyboard had worked properly, then he would not have lost his job and his respect in the society. He wanted Apple to repay for the damage and provide him with a job. 
Apple claims that it was the duty of the customer to check the Apple website, as Apple had issued a free repair program and he had not taken advantage of it. However, the prosecutor claims that Apple had not publicly advertised the program as such. Thus, he claims that Apple's position stands invalid.

Let us consider that Apple won the case, and decided to counter-sue Mr. Whitman on charges of Public Defamation, Loss of Good Will, "Misuse of case to increase Popularity during the parent case proceedings" and financial loss (includes case charges and stock market drops). Mr. Whitman insists that he acted on the advice of other people, and that he wanted to just bring to light the problems that the MacBook had. He also claims that he would have used the Free Repair Program had he known about it, and that Apple should be held responsible for the faulty design of the MacBook, which lead to him raising the parent case in the first place.

[or] ----

Let us consider that Whitman won the case. However, Apple decides to not service the MacBook when Whitman submitted it to the Apple Free Repair Program (FRP). Apple claims that they had already paid the consumer with the required amount in the parent case, which they believe that Mr. Whitman should use to fund the repairs. However, Whitman claims that there was no explicit specification in the parent case's court settlement that mentioned about the same. He wants Apple to pay for his repairs and provide a free trade-in if the problem ever occurred again. 

[OR] ----------------------------

…sent the MacBook to Apple's repair centre to take advantage of the Apple Free Repair Program (FRP) issued for the DisplayGate and ButterflyGate issues. After the repair, he found out that the problem still persisted. However, since Apple's FRP had expired just the previous day, Apple declined to fix the problem for free, and instead charged him a hefty fee of $450 to fix both the issues. When Whitman researched about this problem later, her found out that other Apple users faced similar issues even after repair. Thus, he and other Apple Users filed a collective lawsuit against Apple for the faulty repair that Apple had performed and wanted Apple to refund the repair fees. They also argued that the deadline was unreasonable, and it should have pushed up until Apple stopped sending security updates to the MacBooks. Apple argued that there was a trade-in option available at the time of repair, and they could have traded in the device in order to get a better device. Apple also claimed that pushing up deadline to some 10 years would have resulted in a loss for the company, as it would be difficult to get the supply parts as time progressed and that it would also hamper the development and funding of other devices and programs that they had issued.

Let us consider that Apple won the case, and decided to counter-sue Mr. Whitman on charges of Public Defamation, Loss of Good Will, "Misuse of case to increase Popularity during the parent case proceedings" and financial loss (includes case charges and stock market drops). Mr. Whitman insists that he acted on the advice of other people, and that he wanted to just bring to light the problems that the MacBook had. He also claims that Apple should be held responsible for the faulty design of the MacBook, which lead to him raising the parent case in the first place.

Take sides and resolve each case independently, and determine the outcomes of each case if they occurred in the USA, under the California State Laws.

(This case is a bit too lengthy, and the sub-cases are a bit too extreme. But, this case aims to shed light on Consumer Rights) 

AC Fire!!!

Mr. Stario Matramak, an entrepreneur, bought an O General AC. After a few years, he sent the AC for a general service to the closest O General Service Center. He then notices that his AC did not perform as optimal as it did before. The electric supply in his area is stable and the electric system in his house is completely intact. However, on a fine Monday morning, his AC went up in flames while functioning, and as a result, he was unable to attend an important client meeting. Thus, they lost the contract that the client offered, and their company's stock market valuation fell fown, leading to a lot of losses to both Stario personally and his company as a whole. Many employees lost their jobs and salaries were reduced as a stopgap measure in order to keep the company afloat.

Now, Stario and his company file a combined lawsuit against O General, claiming that it was the faulty repair service offered by the O General Company that lead to the ultimate losses that he incurred personally (damage to the House, AC) and his company as a whole. O General insists that they had performed the repairs properly.

Let us consider that O General won the above case. Then, they file a counter-case on Mr. Stario and his company on charges of defamation, loss of good will, and "the intent to hamper the financial status of O General". 

Take sides and resolve each case independently, and determine the outcomes of each case if they occurred in:

India [OR]

The Hague (aka the ICJ) [OR]

The UK

Do you think that an out-of-court settlement would be feasible for both parties? If so, then in which country/court (out of the above options) the OOC settlement would be feasible?

IPL Bidding

Mr. Virat Kholi, and Mr. M S Dhoni, in the IPL Bidding Sessions, were put up for grabs by the Delhi Capitals (DC) and the CSK team respectively. They were taken up by the CSK team and the DC team respectively during the bidding process and signed one-year contracts with the teams. However, since M.S. Dhoni's style and play did not match that of the DC team, he was chucked out of the DC team. Since M.S. Dhoni was now "free", the CSK team brought him back into their fold. The DC team sought for Virat Kholi, and they took him back into the DC team without informing the CSK team. After Virat joined the DC team, he handed over his resignation letter to the CSK manager. 

The CSK manager, infuriated by his actions, launched a legal class-action lawsuit against Virat on charges of "Breach of Contract". 
Hint: CSK team (as a whole) - Prosecution, Virat - Defendant

Later, the DC team launched a counter-lawsuit against the CSK team and M.S. Dhoni on the same grounds (i.e. Breach of Contract), along with charges of "treason against the DC team" on M.S. Dhoni separately.
Hint: DC team (as a whole) - Prosecution, M.S. Dhoni and the CSK team - Defendant

Take sides and resolve each case independently, and determine the outcomes of each case if they occurred in:

The USA [OR]

India [OR]

The Hague (aka the ICJ)

Do you think that an out-of-court settlement would be feasible for both parties? If so, then in which country/court (out of the above options) the OOC settlement would be feasible?

Background Score Recreation

Mr. Kureshi, a budding YouTuber, after listening to a song called "Ennadi Maayavi Nee", created an Instrumental score version of the music that others can see (the Music Notes) and listen to (the Instrumental Audio track), in order to help them learn and perform the song at concerts or solo performances. He uploaded this video, along with the printable score version in the description, on YouTube. But, YouTube's automatic copyright system, convinced that the Instrumental track is an actual copy of the original song and not the author's own music track, flags it and informs Sony Music Corporation. Sony Music decides to escalate it to court…

in the US [OR]

in India

Take sides and resolve this dispute.
Hint: Sony Music - Prosecution, Mr. Kureshi - Defendant

Publishing books

Mr. Jayaraj, a budding author, published a book on Google Books. Google, however, after reviewing the book using AI, pulled it out of circulation, since its automatic review system flagged the book. The author takes Google to court in order to…

ask Google to restore his content by proving that he wrote the book on his own. (Assuming the Book is free of cost to read)
[OR]

sue Google for the damage of reputation and financial damage incurred due to the loss of sales during the time period it was not in circulation, since he had already proved to Google that he owned the content and Google restored it to its former status. (Assuming that the access to the book is locked behind a paywall.)

Hint: Google - Defendant, Mr. Jayaraj - Prosecution

Go through these cases, and take half-an-hour for each case. View the case from all angles and then write down the points for both sides. Then, present your case in front of a mirror to bolster confidence. Then, on Wednesday, we will discuss about these cases.

Go through a few cases online as well, even some real cases if possible. 

Other Case Ideas

Uniform Civil Code

Case Title: Kumar vs. Sharma - Indian Uniform Civil Code Challenge

Background: The Indian Uniform Civil Code (UCC) aims to replace personal laws based on the scriptures and customs of each major religious community in India with a common set governing every citizen. The case involves a legal challenge brought by Raj Kumar, who argues that the UCC, as proposed or implemented, infringes upon his fundamental religious rights.

Incident: Raj Kumar, a member of a religious minority community, challenges the UCC on the grounds that it violates his community’s personal laws, which he argues are integral to his religious practice and identity. He claims that the UCC imposes a one-size-fits-all approach that disregards the diversity of personal laws in India and infringes upon religious freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution.

Legal Challenge: Kumar seeks to overturn or amend certain provisions of the UCC, arguing that its implementation would undermine the religious autonomy of minority communities and conflict with constitutional protections for religious practices. The challenge involves examining the balance between uniformity in civil laws and the protection of religious freedoms.

Government's Defense: The government argues that the UCC is intended to promote equality and justice by standardizing laws related to marriage, divorce, inheritance, and adoption, thereby reducing disparities between different communities. They assert that the UCC does not aim to undermine religious practices but to ensure that all citizens are treated equally under a common legal framework.

Legal Questions:

Does the Indian Uniform Civil Code infringe upon the fundamental right to religious freedom guaranteed by the Constitution?

How should the courts balance the need for a uniform legal system with the protection of religious and cultural practices of minority communities?

What are the constitutional and legal limits on implementing a uniform code that potentially overrides established personal laws?

Corruption and Treason Charges

Case Title: State vs. Governor Adams - Corruption Charges

Background: Governor Samuel Adams is facing allegations of corruption related to his tenure in office. The charges stem from claims that Adams used his position for personal gain, including accepting bribes and engaging in fraudulent activities.

Yes.

Incident: An investigation revealed evidence suggesting that Governor Adams may have accepted bribes from contractors in exchange for awarding them state contracts. Additionally, there are allegations that he manipulated state resources for personal benefit. The charges include bribery, fraud, and abuse of power.

Legal Challenge: The prosecution seeks to prove that Adams’s actions constitute corruption and violate state and federal laws. They aim to establish a clear connection between his actions and the illegal benefits he allegedly received.

Governor Adams’s Defense: Adams’s defense team might argue that the evidence against him is circumstantial or that the transactions in question were legal and properly documented. They could also contend that there is no direct proof linking Adams to the alleged corrupt activities.

Legal Questions:

What constitutes sufficient evidence to prove corruption charges against a public official?

How should the court address potential defenses based on legal transactions and lack of direct evidence?

Case Title: Nation vs. General Carter - Treason Charges

Background: General James Carter is charged with treason for allegedly conspiring to undermine the government and aid a foreign adversary. The charges relate to accusations that Carter engaged in activities intended to destabilize national security and support an enemy nation.

Incident: Evidence suggests that General Carter may have communicated classified information to a foreign power and attempted to sabotage military operations. The prosecution argues that these actions directly threatened national security and violated the constitutional prohibition against treason.

Legal Challenge: The case centers on proving that Carter’s actions meet the legal definition of treason, which typically involves levying war against the country or giving aid and comfort to its enemies. The prosecution must demonstrate that Carter's conduct was both intentional and significantly harmful to national interests.

General Carter’s Defense: Carter’s defense might argue that the charges are politically motivated or that the evidence does not conclusively prove intent to commit treason. They could also contend that his actions were misinterpreted or that he was operating under lawful orders or principles.

Legal Questions:

What evidence is required to substantiate treason charges, and how does the court define “aid and comfort” to an enemy?

How should potential political motivations and interpretations of classified information be addressed in a treason case?

Property ownership, property destruction, and accidents

Case Title: Jones vs. Smith Property Ownership Dispute

Background: Jane Jones and Michael Smith are engaged in a legal dispute over the ownership of a piece of real estate. Both parties claim rights to the property based on differing interpretations of a will and property deed.

Incident: Jane Jones asserts that she is the rightful owner of the property based on a will that she believes grants her ownership. Michael Smith, however, argues that the property deed legally transfers ownership to him following a recent transaction. Both parties have presented conflicting evidence regarding the will's validity and the deed's implications.

Legal Challenge: The court must determine the rightful owner of the property by examining the validity of the will, the terms of the property deed, and any relevant legal precedents governing property ownership.

Michael Smith's Defense: Smith may argue that the property deed, which he claims was legally executed, overrides any will provisions that Jones presents. He may also contest the will’s validity or argue that it does not apply to the property in question.

Which is Better a Will or a Gift Deed?

Legal Questions:

How should the court resolve conflicts between a will and a property deed regarding ownership claims?

What evidence is necessary to establish the validity of a will or a deed in property ownership disputes?

Case Title: Taylor vs. Green Property Destruction

Background: Alex Taylor is suing Pat Green for the destruction of a property Taylor owns. Green’s actions, whether intentional or accidental, led to significant damage to Taylor’s property.

Incident: Pat Green allegedly caused substantial damage to Taylor’s property, either through negligent behavior or intentional acts. Taylor claims that Green's actions resulted in financial loss and a decrease in property value.

Legal Challenge: Taylor seeks compensation for repairs, loss of property value, and any other damages resulting from the destruction. The case revolves around determining whether Green's actions constitute negligence or intentional harm and assessing the appropriate compensation for the damage.

Pat Green's Defense: Green may argue that the destruction was accidental or not caused by his actions. If negligence is claimed, Green might contend that he exercised reasonable care and that the damage was unforeseen or unavoidable.

Legal Questions:

Is Green liable for property damage, and what standard of care is required to establish negligence or intentional harm?

What constitutes adequate compensation for property destruction, and how should damages be calculated?

Case Title: Lee vs. Rivera Accident Liability

Background: Sarah Lee is seeking damages from Carlos Rivera following a vehicular accident. Lee claims that Rivera’s negligence caused the accident, resulting in injuries and property damage.

Incident: Sarah Lee alleges that Carlos Rivera was driving recklessly and caused a collision that led to significant injuries and damage to her vehicle. Lee seeks compensation for medical expenses, vehicle repairs, and any other losses resulting from the accident.

Legal Challenge: The case focuses on determining whether Rivera was at fault for the accident due to negligence and what compensation Lee is entitled to for her injuries and property damage.

Carlos Rivera's Defense: Rivera may argue that he was not at fault for the accident, perhaps claiming that Lee was partially or wholly responsible. He might also challenge the extent of the damages claimed by Lee or argue that the accident was caused by unforeseen circumstances.

Legal Questions:

To what extent is Rivera liable for the accident, and how is negligence determined in vehicular accidents?

What damages is Lee entitled to, and how should compensation be calculated for injuries and property damage?

Queen Snow White vs. Queen Ravenna

Case Summary:

Background: Years after the events of the classic tale, Snow White, now the reigning queen of her own kingdom, has initiated a legal case against her former stepmother, Queen Ravenna. The lawsuit arises from the long-term emotional and physical trauma Snow White suffered due to Ravenna’s previous actions, which include attempted murder and ongoing harassment.

Incident: Following her escape from Queen Ravenna’s kingdom and subsequent adventures, Snow White became the queen of a neighboring realm. Despite the passage of time, she continues to suffer from the repercussions of Ravenna’s earlier attempts on her life, including the poisoning attempt with a cursed apple. Snow White claims that the psychological impact and the physical dangers she faced during her escape were severe and ongoing, affecting her ability to rule effectively and her quality of life.

Legal Challenge: Snow White is suing Queen Ravenna for intentional infliction of emotional distress, attempted murder, and long-term harassment. She seeks damages for the enduring trauma, both emotional and physical, that resulted from Ravenna’s actions. Snow White argues that the Queen's actions had lasting effects on her health and ability to govern her kingdom.

Queen Ravenna's Defense: Queen Ravenna may contend that the claims are based on past events and thus are no longer actionable or relevant. She might argue that any harm caused was part of historical grievances and not a current legal matter. Additionally, Ravenna could claim that Snow White’s position as a queen and her successful rule are evidence of the limited impact of the alleged harm.

Legal Questions:

Can Snow White seek damages for emotional distress and attempted murder for actions that occurred in the past, given that they have had lasting effects on her life and reign?

What is the legal standing of claims involving long-term psychological and physical impacts resulting from historical events?

How does the passage of time affect the ability to pursue legal action for past grievances, particularly in cases involving personal vendettas and longstanding trauma?

John Smith vs. Red Bull GmbH

Case Summary:

Background: John Smith, a consumer of Red Bull, filed a lawsuit against the company after misunderstanding the marketing slogan "Red Bull gives you wings" to mean that the beverage would grant him actual physical wings. Smith claims that he relied on the slogan's implication and experienced distress when he did not gain wings, leading to emotional and psychological harm.

Incident: After consuming Red Bull, Smith, influenced by the company’s slogan, attempted to achieve flight, resulting in personal injury. He argues that the slogan's metaphorical language misled him into believing that the drink would provide actual, physical benefits beyond its intended energizing effects.

Legal Challenge: John Smith is suing Red Bull GmbH for false advertising, alleging that the company's slogan misled him into believing that the product had capabilities beyond its actual purpose. He seeks compensation for the injuries sustained and for emotional distress caused by the perceived deception.

Red Bull's Defense: Red Bull may argue that the slogan "Red Bull gives you wings" is a metaphorical expression intended to convey the idea of increased energy and vitality rather than a literal promise. They might also claim that no reasonable consumer would interpret the slogan as a guarantee of physical wings, and thus there was no misleading advertising.

Legal Questions:

Did Red Bull's slogan constitute false or misleading advertising, given that it is intended as a metaphor rather than a literal promise?

Can John Smith be reasonably expected to interpret the slogan in a literal sense, and does this interpretation affect the legal standards for advertising claims?

What is the extent of liability for emotional distress and personal injury resulting from a consumer’s misunderstanding of marketing language?

Jane Doe vs. Starbucks Corporation

Case Summary:

Background: Jane Doe, a regular customer at Starbucks, suffered third-degree burns when a cup of hot coffee purchased from a Starbucks location spilled on her lap. The coffee was alleged to be excessively hot, far beyond the temperature considered safe for consumption, leading to severe injuries that required extensive medical treatment.

Incident: After purchasing a cup of coffee from Starbucks drive-thru (optional), Jane Doe placed the cup between her legs while she attempted to remove the lid. The coffee spilled, causing severe burns to her legs and groin area. Doe claims that the coffee was served at a dangerously high temperature, making it unreasonably unsafe for consumers.

Legal Challenge: Jane Doe has filed a lawsuit against Starbucks Corporation, arguing that the company was negligent in serving coffee at an excessively high temperature. She contends that Starbucks failed to provide adequate warnings about the potential danger, and as a result, she suffered serious physical harm. The lawsuit seeks compensation for medical expenses, pain and suffering, and punitive damages.

Starbucks' Defense: Starbucks may argue that the temperature of the coffee is standard industry practice and that customers should be aware of the risks associated with hot beverages. Additionally, they might claim that the spill was the result of Doe's own actions, and not due to any negligence on the part of Starbucks.

Legal Questions:

Was Starbucks negligent in serving coffee at a temperature that could cause severe burns, and did they fail to adequately warn customers of this risk?

To what extent is Starbucks responsible for the injuries sustained by Jane Doe, and what is the standard of care required in serving hot beverages?

Can Starbucks be held liable for punitive damages if it is determined that they acted with reckless disregard for customer safety?

Terms and Conditions Issues

T&C Issues - McAfee Virus Protection Pledge, Adobe Suite of Products being pirated by people, Netflix Password Sharing Issues

Case Title: McAfee Security Solutions vs. Consumer Protection Agency

Background: McAfee, a provider of antivirus and cybersecurity solutions, has issued a public pledge guaranteeing the effectiveness of its virus protection software. However, a series of high-profile breaches have led consumers to question the validity of this pledge.

Incident: A group of consumers experienced significant security breaches despite using McAfee’s software, leading them to file complaints with the Consumer Protection Agency. They allege that McAfee’s pledge was misleading and failed to deliver the promised protection, resulting in financial losses and compromised personal data.

Legal Challenge: The Consumer Protection Agency is investigating whether McAfee’s pledge constitutes false advertising and if the company failed to meet its contractual obligations to consumers. The case seeks to determine if McAfee is liable for damages due to its allegedly ineffective virus protection and misleading claims.

McAfee's Defense: McAfee may argue that the breaches were the result of consumer negligence, external factors, or sophisticated attacks beyond their software’s control. They might also claim that their pledge was not a guarantee but a marketing statement and that they have complied with industry standards for security software.

Legal Questions:

Does McAfee’s pledge constitute a binding guarantee of protection, and can they be held liable for breaches if their software fails to meet the expectations set by their pledge?

What are the legal standards for false advertising in the context of cybersecurity products?

Case Title: Adobe Systems Inc. vs. Unauthorised Distributors

Background: Adobe Systems Inc., known for its suite of creative software products, faces a significant issue with software piracy. Unauthorized distributors have been selling pirated versions of Adobe’s software, leading to revenue loss and potential security risks for users.

Incident: Adobe has discovered that pirated versions of its software, including Photoshop and Illustrator, are being widely distributed online. This piracy undermines the company’s business model and raises concerns about the safety and functionality of these unauthorized copies.

Legal Challenge: Adobe is pursuing legal action against the unauthorized distributors, seeking to enforce intellectual property rights and prevent further distribution of pirated software. They aim to recover damages for lost revenue and to stop the spread of unauthorized copies that could harm their brand reputation and customer security.

Unauthorized Distributors' Defense: The distributors might argue that they are providing access to software that is otherwise too expensive for some users and that their actions are a form of public service. They may also challenge the enforcement of intellectual property laws in this context.

Legal Questions:

What legal recourse does Adobe have against the distribution of pirated software, and what are the potential damages for lost revenue and brand harm?

How do intellectual property laws apply to the enforcement against software piracy and unauthorized distribution?

Case Title: Netflix Inc. vs. Subscriber Over Password Sharing

Background: Netflix, a leading streaming service provider, has faced issues with subscribers sharing their account passwords beyond the scope of their subscription plans. This widespread password sharing has led to a strain on Netflix’s resources and a loss in potential revenue.

Incident: Netflix has identified numerous instances of password sharing among users who are not part of the same household. In response, the company is considering stricter measures to enforce its terms of service and limit account sharing to authorized users only.

Legal Challenge: Netflix is seeking to enforce its terms of service by pursuing legal action against users who engage in password sharing, arguing that it violates their subscription agreement. They seek to address how such practices impact their business model and how they can legally restrict unauthorized access.

Subscribers' Defense: Subscribers might argue that password sharing is a common practice and that Netflix’s enforcement measures could be seen as unreasonable or overly restrictive. They may also challenge the legality of Netflix’s measures under consumer protection laws.

Legal Questions:

Can Netflix enforce its terms of service regarding password sharing, and what are the implications for users who share accounts outside their household?

What legal standards apply to enforcing subscription agreements and preventing unauthorized access in the context of digital services?

The Third Little Pig vs. The Big Bad Wolf

Case Summary:

Background: The Third Little Pig, known for building a sturdy house of bricks, is suing the Big Bad Wolf for the destruction of his brothers’ homes, for murder of his brothers (optional) and for attempted property damage to his own residence. The case revolves around the Wolf’s repeated attempts to blow down the houses of the three little pigs, causing significant distress and material loss.

Incident: The Big Bad Wolf targeted the three little pigs, blowing down the houses made of straw and sticks, which belonged to the first and second pigs. He also killed the first two pigs. (Optional) However, when the Wolf attempted to blow down the brick house of the Third Little Pig, his efforts were unsuccessful. Despite this, the Third Little Pig claims that the Wolf’s actions caused emotional distress, property damage to his brothers’ homes, and endangered his own safety.

Legal Challenge: The Third Little Pig has filed a lawsuit against the Big Bad Wolf, accusing him of intentional property destruction, harassment, and attempted harm. The Pig is seeking compensation for the damages caused to his brothers and for the psychological impact of the Wolf’s repeated threats.

Wolf’s Defense: The Big Bad Wolf may argue that his actions were part of natural predatory behavior, and therefore, he cannot be held liable under the laws governing pigs. Alternatively, the Wolf might claim that the Pig’s house, being of superior construction, was never truly at risk, and thus, no real harm was done.

Legal Questions:

Is the Big Bad Wolf legally responsible for the destruction of the first two pigs’ homes and the attempted destruction of the Third Little Pig’s home?

Can the Third Little Pig seek damages for emotional distress and endangerment, even though his house remained intact?

What legal protections exist for individuals (or pigs) against repeated harassment and threats to their property?

Maya Thompson vs. X School District

Case Summary:

Background: Maya Thompson, a student at X School, posted comments on an off-campus social media platform that were directed at her classmate, Chen Han. The comments were made outside of school hours and off school grounds. However, Maya’s social media profile mentioned that she was a student at X School.

Incident: Chen Han, feeling hurt and targeted by the online comments, reported the incident to the school administration. In response, the school decided to suspend Maya for engaging in behavior they deemed as bullying, arguing that her actions violated the school’s code of conduct, which prohibits harassment.

Legal Challenge: Maya, arguing that the school overstepped its authority, filed a lawsuit against the X School District. She contends that the school has no legal right to punish her for actions taken off-campus, particularly in a space like social media, where her right to free speech should be protected.

School’s Defense: In response to the court's subpoena, the school administration argues that because Maya’s social media account clearly identifies her as a student of X School, her actions reflect on the school community and have the potential to disrupt the school environment. The school claims that it has the authority to discipline students for off-campus behavior when it directly impacts other students and the school climate.

Legal Questions:

Does the school have the legal right to discipline a student for off-campus online speech that impacts other students?

Does the mention of the school in Maya’s social media profile give the school jurisdiction over her online actions?

How does the balance between free speech and preventing bullying play out in a digital age?

The Bronzyard Chair vs. The Saw

Case Summary:

Background: The Bronzyard Chair, a prized and cherished piece of furniture, was severely damaged when a saw was accidentally dropped on it by a human during a home renovation. The chair, now seeking justice for the harm caused, wishes to sue the saw for damages.

Incident: The saw, an inanimate object, was being used by a human when it accidentally slipped from their grasp and fell onto the Bronzyard Chair, causing significant damage. The chair, anthropomorphised for the purposes of this legal battle, claims that the saw is responsible for the destruction and seeks compensation.

Legal Challenge: The chair has initiated legal action against the saw, arguing that the saw is the direct cause of the damage. However, the case raises complex questions about liability, agency, and the nature of legal responsibility when it comes to inanimate objects.

Court’s Consideration: The court must decide whether an inanimate object like the saw can be held liable for damages and, if not, whether the human who dropped the saw should be held responsible instead. The case also invites discussion on the concept of legal personhood and whether objects can possess rights or bear responsibilities.

Legal Questions:

Can an inanimate object, such as a saw, be held legally liable for causing damage to another object?

If the saw cannot be held responsible, should the human operator be liable for the damage caused by their accidental actions?

What are the broader implications of assigning legal personhood or liability to inanimate objects in this context?

Some Actual Lawyer's up cases

A naval officer has a wife and children. He travelled on a navy ship for 6 months. While he was abroad, his wife has an affair with his best friend. Once the naval officer returns, his wife confesses to him about the affair. Out of rage, the naval officer goes to his ship, picks up a gun, goes to his best friend's house, shoots him and kills him. The naval officer immediately reported to his nearby police station and confessed his actions. He was put on trial for murder charges.
Prosecution - Punish the naval officer.
Defense - Acquit the officer of all charges.

(Life of Pi) 4 people explore a mine, and there's only one entrance to the mine. The entrance was blocked and they suffered in the cave for 15 days. They had only food for 2 days and had an abundant supply of water. On the 15th day, they decided to roll a dice and eat the human who got the lowest number on the die. All four of them agreed. However, at last moment, one of them backs out, and the others kill him and eat him up. The group was rescued the next day by the royal troops.
The crown, upon their return, questions them why did only 3 people return even though 4 people went in. The previously mentioned deed was revealed and they are now on trial.
Prosecution (representing the crown) - Punish the 3 remaining members. (whether it is capital, social service, imprisonment, death)
Defense - Against any form of punishment

"A" places an order of 100 apples from "B", at a cost of 100 rupees. A receives the goods but fails to pay B. Assuming that 100 rupees is a significant amount, B sues A for the sum and damages of 50 rupees. 
Prosecution - Prove that A should pay B
Defense - Prove that A shouldn't pay B

Activity

Read through the Terms given here, and find all the loopholes that you can exploit to win a case… or create a case in favour of the company on the basis of their Terms and Conditions.

The JECC

Joint Election Commission of Class 9 C and 9 D - Documentation

The Doubts Group A

Doubts Group A - Rules and Regulations 

HSAG Ingeniousity

HSAG Ingeniousity - Documentation

HSAG Terms of use and service…

HSAG Privacy Policy

Juggler Wizards Open-Source Group

Jugzards Terms of use and service…

Jugzards Privacy Policy

Case Files (to the above cases)

Document

Case 5 (The MacBook Pro Case)

Reference Material

It is necessary for each attorney to know about the Copyright laws and Consumer Protection (Rights) Laws, as they serve a major purpose in your arguments.

Consumer protection - Wikipedia

Copyright

The International Berne Convention on Copyright, 1886 + US Laws

Berne Convention

Summary of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (1886)

What Copyright Protects

What does Copyright Apply to?

What Does Fair Use/ Fair Dealing Mean?

Indian Copyright Law, 1957 and Copyright Rules, 2013

In India, fair use is allowed when the copyrighted content is used for the education, cultural and scientific growth of the country.

Gov

Gov

Gov

THE INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT ORDER, 1999

The Creative Commons Attributes

Homepage - Creative Commons

Creative Commons - Wikipedia

Then, also look up for the Open-source licenses available.

Some Good Court Cases…

MSN

Taking a look at an actual lawyer's life…

Normally, when you are a "real-life lawyer", you would

Seek Legal Counsel: When facing a legal issue, it is crucial to consult with a qualified experts. They can provide expert guidance, evaluate your case, and help you navigate the complexities of the legal system.

Gather Evidence: Collect as much evidence as possible to support your case. This can include documents, photographs, videos, witness statements, or any other relevant information. Strong evidence can significantly strengthen your position and increase your chances of success.

Research and Preparation: Thoroughly research the applicable laws, regulations, and precedents relevant to your case. Understand the legal principles involved and how they apply to your situation. Prepare and organize your arguments and supporting evidence in a coherent and persuasive manner.

Communicate Effectively: Clearly and effectively communicate with your lawyer. Provide them with all necessary information and be honest about the details of your case. Maintain open and regular communication channels to stay updated on your case's progress and any developments.

Strategize and Plan: Work closely with your employer to develop a sound legal strategy. Discuss potential outcomes, risks, and alternative approaches. Plan each step of your case carefully, including court filings, negotiations, and trial preparation.

Professional Demeanor: Present yourself professionally and respectfully at all times, both in and out of the courtroom. Follow all legal procedures, adhere to court etiquette, and treat everyone involved with courtesy. A professional demeanor can positively influence how others perceive you and your case.

Stay Informed: Stay updated on any changes, deadlines, or requirements related to your case. Attend all scheduled meetings, hearings, or court dates promptly. Being informed and proactive demonstrates your commitment and dedication to your case.

Remember, legal matters can be complex and time-consuming. It is important to have patience, trust your legal counsel, and follow their advice throughout the process.


By Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A.
Created on August 14, 2023. Updated on August 15, 2024.
All rights reserved.

Photoshop for Complete Beginners

Found this video kinda useful!

Photoshop for Complete Beginners | Lesson 1

Shipwreck

Notes

Tips for Winning an Argument:

Body Language: Be vibrant and move around to show confidence. Body language matters in making a strong impression.

Clarity and Structure: Clearly articulate your points and use a passive-aggressive tone to assert your position. Structuring your content effectively can improve your confidence.

Avoid Logical Fallacies: Be aware of logical fallacies and avoid using them in your arguments. If your opponent makes a mistake, especially a logical fallacy, use it to your advantage.

Speak more about yourself: Focus on showcasing your strengths and don't give your opponent a chance to come back with a proper response.

Use humor: Include humor in your argument to keep the mood light, but make sure it doesn't compromise your main points.

Charisma: Captivate the audience with your voice modulation and charisma. Even if you are not confident in creating content, engaging the audience is key to success.

Emotions and Sympathy: Include emotions like hunger to invoke sympathy where possible. But be careful not to overdo it.

Facts and Truth: While facts are not always necessary to win an argument, it is important to have accurate and provable information to support your case. Avoid making up lies about universal truths, as this can damage your credibility.

Control Your Mouth: Watch what you say and be mindful of your words during the argument.

Inform Judges: If you are uncomfortable with the topic, inform the judges so they can change it for you.

Remember, winning an argument is not just about making strong points, but also about how you present yourself and engage with the audience and judges.

Different Types of Shipwreck

Normal Shipwreck: In this scenario, you find yourself in the midst of a sinking ship and must plead your case to the judge as to why you deserve to be given the life jacket. Your argument must be convincing and compelling in order to secure your safety and survival.

Anti-shipwreck: Contrary to the normal shipwreck scenario, in an anti-shipwreck situation, you are tasked with persuading the judge to give the life jacket to your opponent instead of yourself. Your ability to present a strong and convincing argument in favor of the other person's survival will be put to the test.

Situational Shipwreck: This type of shipwreck involves a specific location and time where a catastrophic event unfolds. You will be assigned a character who is present in that situation and must convince the judge why they should save you. Your storytelling skills and ability to empathize with the character's plight will be crucial in winning the judge's favor. Eg: Ambani in the Ambani Wedding

In each type of shipwreck, the ability to think on your feet, present a compelling argument, and appeal to the judge's sense of empathy and logic will determine your fate. It is a test of not only survival skills but also communication and persuasion abilities in the face of adversity.

Criteria

Spontaneity 

Originality

Language and Expression

Body Language

Content

Humor is also accepted.

Some titles

Normal Shipwreck: You are assigned the character of a single mother who is on her way to visit her sick child when the ship starts sinking. You must convince the judge that your child desperately needs you to survive and that your life is worth saving in order to be given the life jacket.

Anti-shipwreck: You are assigned the character of a young, able-bodied man who is a trained lifeguard. You must argue in favor of giving the life jacket to an elderly woman who is struggling to stay afloat in the water. Your knowledge and skills in water rescue will be put to the test as you make your case.

Situational Shipwreck: You are assigned the character of a famous celebrity who is on a private yacht party when it suddenly starts sinking. In order to be saved, you must convince the judge that your survival is crucial for the entertainment industry and that your presence is needed to bring joy and happiness to millions of fans worldwide.

←   Wish to know more about me? 

Then click on the above link to go back to the home page, where I’ve written a lot about myself! 😎

© All rights reserved. Sugeeth Jayaraj S.A.

Class 9

When I was in class 9 (well technically class 10, but then officially Class 9), we had a Culturals post-lockdown. I was part of the Thomas House back then. I wanted to participate in Lawyers' Up, but was pitted (and selected) for shipwreck instead due to lack of participants. I was instantly mortified as I didn't know a lot about personalities. So, I tried to study up a lot of'em on internet, both fictional and real. MCU, Agents of SHIELD, Modi, etc… the list went on and on. 

At the same time, I was also put in the "Tent Decoration" event, which was never my cliche. However, I got to learn a lot about design and contributed to the software part of the event, which included creating videos and soundtracks. 

Then again, it was of no use as the instructions weren't clear, and we were deducted points for our lackluster decoration and use of tech. The Rua House clearly won, due to their "Chinese" themed decoration (courtesy of Ishana Santhosh, my then "perceived" arch-nemesis). Since the event was a major event, it contributed a 100 points to that house, and they were clearly in the lead.

That dampened my spirits and made my spirit hungry for resounding success. Thus, with great articulation, ideas and fervor; I won the Shipwreck event! (Came as a shock to me, because that was the first time I participated in it.)

To shed some light on the shipwreck side of things, I was shocked during the inter-house demo session for Shipwreck, as there was this guy called "Anurag Karmakar" who did spectacularly well, while I was dumbfounded and embarrassed. Why? He got Mr. Narendra Modi, the PM of India 🇮🇳 (at that time). And he did that part spectacularly well.

So, after the demo session, I went into full overdrive researching about personalities. 

So, I practiced and worked hard. Every evening, I’d spend my leisure hours researching about fictional and actual people, looking through Fandom and Wikipedia alike.

Later on, when I competed against him (twice - in both rounds), I ended up winning in the end of it all. Wowed was I. And so was he.

Class 10

Sports Day

Sports Day was a huge thing in our school. Still sore from the defeat in the tent decoration event from the previous culturals, I took it to heart that I must somehow make Bosco House (my team) win. During the days of practice, I took to the helm and fervently trained my team in doing March-past properly.

Then for the tent decoration event, I was asked to create "posters" for Bosco House. And I spent one whole night trying to make the perfect poster… 

Yup. In the end, our house won Sports Day. The captains first handed the cup over to me and asked me to lead the victory lap. Oh my god, that felt great!

Culturals

By the next culturals, my importance had become well known. I was regarded as the de facto captain of the Bosco House…

I decided to participate in the debate competition. At the same time, I stumbled upon our Category 3 mime students and saw their play… and gave them a few pointers. The teachers appointed me to preside over the play as its student head. I explained to them how mime works (Why? Because I won first place in mime during a competition that happened during lockdown.) I even did the technical stuff, like creating the soundtrack for the mime (however, the wrong draft soundtrack was submitted, which ended up as a glitch).

Still, the mime guys won 2nd place!

In my fire-on debate, my charisma and enthusiasm helped my team win 1st place in the Debate! Wow!

However, I flopped in Shipwreck, and didn’t get to win any place for that… huh, everything has its own ups and down, bro.

Class 11

Sports Day

Huh… this time around, I was put in Thomas House. This isn’t usually what I do. I personally hate Thomas house because I have never got a prize while I was in that house for five years. This time round, I was asked personally to help my team perform in sports day and they asked me to guide them to train them in March past. Yeah, it is a different story though. To start: my charisma and my vigour made all the others in my house; except for, you know, my classmates and class 12; to believe that I was the captain of the house.

All of them followed my lead and all of us did very well. They even made me play a role for sports day. However, some people did not like this whole "captain-kinda respect" that I got, especially my Asst captain, namely my friend, Mr Sameer Hussain. At one point in time, they even offered me Asst captaincy to take over Sameer’s position. I refused. But since his position was threatened by me, he was a little bit risk to me, but then he still respected me and all that stuff. Long story short, we didn’t win that sports day. We actually lost and that sports day we only got the award of being the best disciplined house. That’s kind of like you, know a reassurement prize, not an actual prize in my opinion. So we geared up for Culturals.

Cultural

The Culturals was epic that time… however I wasn’t allowed to participate in my event of choice, Lawyer’s Up, as I was regarded to be “younger” etc… I was assigned to take care of Lawyer’s Up, while I was asked to participate in a Digital Poster Making Event. My protégée for Lawyer’s Up was Ms. Riann Maria Christus (before that, she’d spoken in the parliament too)! I gave her some tips and we did some mock cases… all the while I had to deal with my own Poster team to practice for that competition. Riann, at the same time, helped in fashion-designer competition.

My teammates were Arya Manoj, Varshik and another guy for the Poster Making Competition. We did not have enough time to practice for the competition, as we couldn’t all meet at the same time a lot… Then again, on the day of the competition, me and Arya Manoj together won the first prize for that.

Riann ended up getting third in her own event, and the fashion-designer she helped (fervently) got First Prize!

Well, I also participated in the Magnum Opus event and got 2nd place in the Essay Competition. My school overall won 2nd 🥈 place!

Class 12

Sports Day

Well, this time ‘round, I didn’t wanna participate, in order to focus on my studies. I submitted a letter stating that information to the Principal. He accepted it as a personal request from a student.

Later on, someone unilaterally “reinterpreted” the situation and ensured that my entire section wasn’t allowed to participate in Sports Day and Culturals, by using the following arguments:-

Rule for one is rule for all (Huh? You guys didn’t inform me!)

That I was Class Monitor at that time and whatever I did was a representation of my Class. (What nonsense? I clearly mentioned that I represented myself and the tone of the letter was that of parent asking for exemption for her child alone.)

That my homeroom Teacher had signed the letter.…thus she must know the repercussions and should have foreseen the outcomes… (Again, did you inform us of the consequences or anything?)

This blew up and became a big issue, and my homeroom teacher ended up venting out her frustration outside the classroom in the hallways to peons etc. I earned the badwill of every student in my grade.

Later on, through much deliberation, my section was allowed to volunteer for Sports Day. We weren’t allowed to participate in the ceremonial March-past event. And this meant that my letter’s effects were technically nullified… but the damage was done. This decision was only made 2 days before Sports Day. 

Later, we had an event called DB Revelations, and in that, I participated in the Shipwreck competition. I went to the Second Level and then couldn’t proceed further.

Culturals

My section was allowed to participate in Culturals. And with much fervour too! It was supposed to be our last Culturals in school. And thus we prepared fervently…

I was assigned, as the senior batch of the group, to take care of a few events… I ended up taking care of 7 events, participating in the decision-making, guidance upto the finals.

And surprise, surprise… we got a prize in’em all. Here’s a short list of all the competitions that I helped in:

Shipwreck - Allanson - 3rd Place

Newsreading (Selection) - 1st Place - Ayaan

Spin a Yarn - 3rd Place

Room Decoration - 2nd Place

Youth Parliament - 2nd Place - Eyelyn, Yaadharsh, + 2 more

Declamation Speech - 3rd Place

That’s culturals to you.

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

In August 2015, 193 countries agreed to the following 17 goals:

No Poverty

Zero hunger

Good health and wellbeing

Quality Education

Gender equality

Clean water and sanitation

Affordable and clean energy

Decent work and economic growth

Industry, innovation and infrastructure

Reduce inequality

Sustainable cities and communities

Responsible Consumption and Production

Climate action

Life below water

Life on land

Peace and justice. Strong institutions

Partnerships for the goals

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

Environmental sustainability concerns the natural environment and how it endures and remains diverse and productive. Since the Earth provides us with natural resources, the conservation of air, water, and climate is of particular concern. Environmental sustainability requires society to design activities to meet human needs while preserving the vital elements of the planet. For example, it entails using water sustainably, using renewable energy and sustainable material supplies (e.g. harvesting wood from forests at a rate that maintains biomass and biodiversity).

An unsustainable situation occurs when the natural capital usage rate (the total of nature's resources) is faster than the replenishable rate. Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a naturally replenishable rate. The concept of sustainable development and carrying capacity have many similarities. Theoretically, the long-term result of environmental degradation is the inability to sustain human life.

Herman Daly published important operational principles of sustainable development in 1990:-

Renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the harvest rate should not exceed the regeneration rate);

for non-renewable resources, there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes;

waste generation should not exceed the environmental capacity.

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

Agenda 21 was the first international document to recognise education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas for action. ESD is an indicator for Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG) for "responsible consumption and production".

SDG 12 has 11 targets. Target 12.8 aims to ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature by 2030. Twenty years after the creation of Agenda 21, the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development convened. It led to the release of the ‘Future we want’ document. It resolved to promote education for sustainable development and integrate Sustainable Development more actively into Education beyond the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development."

One version of ESD recognises modern-day environmental challenges. It also seeks to define new ways to adjust to a changing biosphere and engage individuals to address societal issues that come with them.

In the International Encyclopedia of Education, ESD is an attempt to "shift consciousness toward an ethics of life-giving relationships that respect the interconnectedness of man to his natural world". It aims to equip future members of society with environmental awareness and a sense of responsibility for sustainability.

Sustainable Development

What is Sustainable development?

Sustainable development is the idea for people to use resources without draining them.

In other words, we must undertake development without damaging or affecting the environment. This idea is popular and used in many government documents and funding programmes.

Definition

The Brundtland Commission (World Commission on Environment and Development) coined the term Sustainable Development. According to it, Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

Why do we need Sustainable Development?

From the last two or three decadestwo or three decades, we have seen that for the sake of economic growtheconomic growth, the health of the environment has taken a toll. As a result, there has been an impact on the environment:-

The decline in air quality

Climate change is due to greenhouse gases.

All these factors led to the need for sustainable developmentsustainable development, as if left unchecked, it can cause irreversible environmental environmental damage.

The following are the importance of sustainable developmentsustainable development:

Using the available resources judiciously and working towards maintaining the ecological balance.

To prevent degradation and emphasise the protection of the environment.

To prevent overexploitation overexploitation of resources.

When was the idea introduced?

In the 17th and 18th centuries, deforestation took place to expand agricultureagriculture. John Evelyn, a famous thinker, argued to conserve forests and timber. Thus, the idea of 'Sustainable forest managementSustainable forest management' was born.

Hans Carl von CarlowitzHans Carl von Carlowitz later built upon the idea by developing the concept of managing forests for a sustained yield. This idea inspired many people, like Gifford Pinchot (the first head of the US Forest Service)  Gifford Pinchot (the first head of the US Forest Service) and Aldo Leopold (Land Ethic Movement).Aldo Leopold (Land Ethic Movement).

Over time, famous writers like Rachel Carson, Kenneth E. BouldingRachel Carson, Kenneth E. Boulding and Garrett HardinGarrett Hardin drew attention to the relationship between economic growth economic growth and environmental degradationenvironmental degradation.

One of the first uses of the term sustainable in its current form was by the Club of Rome in 1972Club of Rome in 1972 in its classic report on the Limits to Growth, written by a group of scientists led by Dennis and Donella Meadows of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). 

In 1980, the International Union for Conservation of NatureInternational Union for Conservation of Nature published a world conservation strategy that globally introduced the term "sustainable developmentsustainable development".

Expansion of the idea

The Brundtland Commission ReportBrundtland Commission Report, Our Common Future, develops upon this idea given by the IUCN. It focuses more on "socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic growth".

In 1992, the UN Conference on Environment and DevelopmentUN Conference on Environment and Development published the Earth Charter Earth Charter. It aims at a just, sustainablesustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century.

The conference also published the action plan 'Agenda 21Agenda 21' for sustainable development. It identified information, integration, and participationinformation, integration, and participation as the building blocks to help countries attain sustainable development. 

Many areas have programmes to promote ‘local sustainabilitylocal sustainability’, called ‘Local Agenda 21Local Agenda 21’ plans, named after the international Agenda 21 action plan for sustainable development agreed upon at the United Nations Earth SummitUnited Nations Earth Summit held in 1992.

The Rio ProtocolRio Protocol was a leap forward. For the first time, the world agreed on a sustainability plan! The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now have concrete targets, a product of the Rio Protocol. We have to achieve these goals by 2030.

Sustainable Development Goals:

The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGsSustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United NationsUnited Nations are the Global Goals for Sustainable DevelopmentGlobal Goals for Sustainable Development. They replaced the Millennium Development Goals Millennium Development Goals that expired at the end of 2015. The SDGs run from 2015 to 20302015 to 2030. There are 17 goals and 169 specific targets17 goals and 169 specific targets for those goals.

Document

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

The Pillars of Sustainability

The core of the idea is the matter of meeting people's needs while also keeping in mind:-

Environmental Environmental Sustainability

Economic Economic Sustainability

Socio-politicalSocio-political Sustainability

Environmental Sustainability

Let's compare the ability of the environment to replenish the environment.

More than nature's abilitynature's ability to replenish

☐ Environmental degradation

☐ Not sustainable

Equal to nature's abilitynature's ability to replenish

☐ Environmental equlibrium

☐ Steady-state economy

 Less than nature's abilitynature's ability to replenish

☐ Environmental renewal

☐ Environmentally sustainable

Economic Sustainability

Due to rural povertyrural poverty and overexploitationoverexploitation, environmental resourcesenvironmental resources are economic assets. Traditionally, economic developmenteconomic development requires growth in GDPGDP. But, sustainable developmentsustainable development may involve improvements in the quality of lifequality of life for many and needs a decrease decrease in resource consumption. 

In 1987, the economist Edward BarbierEdward Barbier published the study "The Concept of Sustainable Economic DevelopmentThe Concept of Sustainable Economic Development". He recognised that environmental conservationenvironmental conservation goals and economic developmenteconomic development are not conflicting and can reinforce each other.

Socio-political Sustainability

A World Bank study from 1999World Bank study from 1999 concluded that based on the theory theory of genuine savingsgenuine savings, policymakers have many possible interventions interventions to increase sustainabilitysustainability. 

If ambitious climate change mitigation policiesambitious climate change mitigation policies do not align with the SDGsSDGs, they can have negative social and economic impactsimpacts. (Source: The 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment ReportThe 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report)

If enough space is there, click and write this:-

As a result, the transition towards sustainable development mitigation policies has slowed down. Other factors like poverty, food insecurity, and water scarcity may impede the government's application of policies that aim to build a low-carbon future. So, inclusivity and considerations of justice in these policies may weaken or support improvements in certain regions.

(Genuine savings - defined as "traditional net savings less the value of resource depletion and environmental degradation plus the value of an investment in human capital") 

Sustainable cities

A sustainable city sustainable city is an urban centreurban centre that improves its environmental impactenvironmental impact through urban planning and management.

Imagine a city with parks and 'green spacesgreen spaces', solar-powered buildingssolar-powered buildings, rooftop gardens, rooftop gardens, and more pedestrians and bicycles than cars. It is not a futuristic dreamfuturistic dream. "Smart citiesSmart cities" are actively moving towards greener urban ecosystems greener urban ecosystems and better environmental managementenvironmental management.

Document

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

Education For Sustainable Development

Education for sustainable development Education for sustainable development (ESD) is a term used by the United NationsUnited Nations. ESD is education education that encourages changes in knowledge, skills, values and attitudesknowledge, skills, values and attitudes to enable a more sustainable sustainable and just society for all. ESD aims to empower empower and equip currentequip current and future generations to meet their needs using a balanced and integrated approach to economic, social and environmental economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable developmentsustainable development.

Document

If enough space is there, click here and write this:-

Sustainable Development

Improving on economic and social aspects:

As early as the 1970s, sustainability was used to describe an economy "in equilibrium with basic ecological support systems". Scientists in many fields have highlighted The Limits to Growth, and economists have presented alternatives, for example, a 'steady-state economy, to address concerns over the impacts of expanding human development on the planet. In 1987, the economist Edward Barbier published the study The Concept of Sustainable Economic Development, where he recognized that goals of environmental conservation and economic development are not conflicting and can be reinforcing each other.

A meta-review in 2002 looked at environmental and economic valuations and found a "lack of concrete understanding of what “sustainability policies” might entail in practice". A study concluded in 2007 that knowledge, manufactured and human capital (health and education) has not compensated for the degradation of natural capital in many parts of the world. It has been suggested that intergenerational equity can be incorporated into sustainable development and decision-making, as has become common in economic valuations of climate economics.

The World Business Council for Sustainable Development published a Vision 2050 document in 2021 to show "How business can lead the transformations the world needs". The vision states that "we envision a world in which 9+billion people can live well, within planetary boundaries, by 2050." This report was highlighted by The Guardian as "the largest concerted corporate sustainability action plan to date – include reversing the damage done to ecosystems, addressing rising greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring societies move to sustainable agriculture."

Sugeeth’s Sustainable Development Project Text

What is Sustainable development?

Sustainable development is the idea for people to use resources without draining them.

In other words, we must undertake development without damaging or affecting the environment. This idea is popular and used in many government documents and funding programmes.

Definition

The Brundtland Commission (World Commission on Environment and Development) coined the term Sustainable Development. According to it, Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

Why do we need Sustainable Development?

We all need a better place to live. Some need better homes and housing, while others need better schools, more jobs, better shops, or cleaner or safer streets. Many might need all of these things!

Usually, the needs of the people are:-

A Better Environment with green spaces, clean play areas, decent houses, and less noise pollution can help. The resources used should be renewable over generations.

A Better Economy - Good jobs, reasonable prices, cheaper heat and light, no loan sharks

Better Social Conditions - Good leisure facilities, community groups offering sports and arts, and friendly neighbours are some other needs of the people.

Most people in developed nations have these needs, but poverty still exists. There are still plenty of ways in which their quality of life is under threat:

from crime

from pollution or

from living in neighbourhoods where no one in authority seems to care.

What happens when we do not follow sustainable development?

E.g. Here is a chain reaction event:-

Authorities wanted to keep the money to themselves. So, they did not spend money on schemes.

Due to this, society does not have transport services (Government).

No shops will be present (Entrepreneurs.)

Poor people will come to live there in search of cheap homes. (Poverty)

There will not be any job opportunities. (Employees)

The place turns into a breeding ground for criminals. (Crime)

Crimes rates will increase all across the country. (Crime)

The Police will try to control crimes. (Government)

To bring down crime rates, the government spends a lot of money.

In the end, since the government did not carry out its responsibility, it suffered a loss.

It is not just a local issue. We have similar problems at an international level. If the world governments are to deal with poverty, they do not just need to provide money and food aid. They need to help local people get educated and get jobs. People also need a safe environment with good homes and drinking water. To make these things work, governments also need to make sure that people have a voice in deciding what happens where they live.

We should conserve our resources for a better future.

When was the idea introduced?

In the 17th and 18th centuries, deforestation took place to expand agriculture. John Evelyn, a famous thinker, argued for the need to conserve forests and timber.

Thus, the idea of 'Sustainable forest management' was born.

Hans Carl von Carlowitz later built upon the idea by developing the concept of managing forests for a sustained yield. This idea inspired many people, like Alexander von Humboldt, Georg Ludwig Hartig, Gifford Pinchot (the first head of the US Forest Service) and Aldo Leopold (Land Ethic Movement).

Over time, famous writers like Rachel Carson, Kenneth E. Boulding and Garrett Hardin drew attention to the relationship between economic growth and environmental degradation.

One of the first uses of the term sustainable in its current form was by the Club of Rome in 1972 in its classic report on the Limits to Growth, written by a group of scientists led by Dennis and Donella Meadows of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Later, an MIT research group prepared ten days of hearings on "Growth and Its Implication for the Future" for the US Congress, the first hearings ever held on sustainable development.

In 1980, the International Union for Conservation of Nature published a world conservation strategy that globally introduced the term "sustainable development".

Expansion of the idea

The Brundtland Commission Report, Our Common Future, develops upon this idea given by the IUCN. It focuses more on the goal of "socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic growth".

In 1992, the UN Conference on Environment and Development published the Earth Charter. It aims at a just, sustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century.

The conference also published the action plan 'Agenda 21' for sustainable development. It identified information, integration, and participation as the building blocks to help countries attain sustainable development. The UN now recognises these interdependent pillars. Furthermore, Agenda 21 emphasises that broad public participation in decision-making is a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable development.

Many areas have programmes to promote ‘local sustainability’, called ‘Local Agenda 21’ plans, named after the international Agenda 21 action plan for sustainable development agreed upon at the United Nations Earth Summit held in 1992.

The Rio Protocol was a leap forward. For the first time, the world agreed on a sustainability plan! The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now have concrete targets, a product of the Rio Protocol.

We have to achieve these goals by 2030.

Sustainable Development Goals:

The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations are the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. They replaced the Millennium Development Goals that expired at the end of 2015. The SDGs run from 2015 to 2030. There are 17 goals and 169 specific targets for those goals.

In August 2015, 193 countries agreed to the following 17 goals:

No Poverty

Zero hunger

Good health and wellbeing

Quality Education

Gender equality

Clean water and sanitation

Affordable and clean energy

Decent work and economic growth

Industry, innovation and infrastructure

Reduce inequality

Sustainable cities and communities

Responsible Consumption and Production

Climate action

Life below water

Life on land

Peace and justice. Strong institutions

Partnerships for the goals

The Pillars of Sustainability

The core of the idea is the matter of meeting people's needs while also keeping in mind:-

Environmental Sustainability

Economic Sustainability

Socio-political Sustainability

Environmental Sustainability

-> Consumption of natural resources

State of the environment

State of sustainability

-> More than nature's ability to replenish

Environmental degradation

Not sustainable

-> Equal to nature's ability to replenish

Environmental equilibrium

Steady-state economy

-> Less than nature's ability to replenish

Environmental renewal

Environmentally sustainable

Economic Sustainability

Due to rural poverty and overexploitation, environmental resources are economic assets. Traditionally, economic development requires growth in GDP. But, sustainable development may involve improvements in the quality of life for many and needs a decrease in resource consumption. "Growth" generally ignores the direct effect that the environment may have on social welfare, whereas "development" takes it into account.

A sustainable economy is an economy "in equilibrium with basic ecological support systems".

In 1987, the economist Edward Barbier published the study "The Concept of Sustainable Economic Development". He recognised that environmental conservation goals and economic development are not conflicting and can reinforce each other.

Socio-political Sustainability

A World Bank study from 1999 concluded that based on the theory of genuine savings, policymakers have many possible interventions to increase sustainability, in macroeconomics or purely environmental. (Genuine savings - defined as "traditional net savings less the value of resource depletion and environmental degradation plus the value of an investment in human capital") Several studies have noted that efficient renewable energy and pollution policies are compatible with increasing human welfare, eventually reaching a golden rule steady state.

If ambitious climate change mitigation policies do not align with the SDGs, they can have negative social and economic impacts. (Source: The 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report)

As a result, the transition towards sustainable development mitigation policies has slowed down. Other factors like poverty, food insecurity, and water scarcity may impede the government's application of policies that aim to build a low-carbon future. So, inclusivity and considerations of justice in these policies may weaken or support improvements in certain regions.

Sustainable cities

A sustainable city is an urban centre that improves its environmental impact through urban planning and management.

Imagine a city with parks and 'green spaces', solar-powered buildings, rooftop gardens, and more pedestrians and bicycles than cars. It is not a futuristic dream. "Smart cities" are actively moving towards greener urban ecosystems and better environmental management.

Environmental sustainability concerns the natural environment and how it endures and remains diverse and productive. Since the Earth provides us with natural resources, the state of air, water, and climate are of particular concern. Environmental sustainability requires society to design activities to meet human needs while preserving the vital elements of the planet. For example, it entails using water sustainably, using renewable energy and sustainable material supplies (e.g. harvesting wood from forests at a rate that maintains biomass and biodiversity).

An unsustainable situation occurs when the natural capital usage rate (the total of nature's resources) is faster than the replenishable rate. Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a naturally replenishable rate. The concept of sustainable development and carrying capacity have many similarities. Theoretically, the long-term result of environmental degradation is the inability to sustain human life.

Herman Daly published important operational principles of sustainable development in 1990:-

Renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the harvest rate should not exceed the regeneration rate);

for non-renewable resources, there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes;

waste generation should not exceed the environmental capacity.

Education For Sustainable Development

Education for sustainable development (ESD) is a term used by the United Nations. ESD is education that encourages changes in knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for all. ESD aims to empower and equip current and future generations to meet their needs using a balanced and integrated approach to economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.

Agenda 21 was the first international document to recognise education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas for action. ESD is an indicator for Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG) for "responsible consumption and production".

SDG 12 has 11 targets. Target 12.8 aims to ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature by 2030. Twenty years after the creation of Agenda 21, the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development convened. It led to the release of the ‘Future we want’ document. It resolved to promote education for sustainable development and integrate Sustainable Development more actively into Education beyond the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development."

One version of ESD recognises modern-day environmental challenges. It also seeks to define new ways to adjust to a changing biosphere and engage individuals to address societal issues that come with them.

In the International Encyclopedia of Education, ESD is an attempt to "shift consciousness toward an ethics of life-giving relationships that respect the interconnectedness of man to his natural world". It aims to equip future members of society with environmental awareness and a sense of responsibility for sustainability.

Sugeeth’s Sustainable Development Project

What is Sustainable development?

Sustainable development is the idea for people to use resources without draining them.

In other words, we must undertake development without damaging or affecting the environment. This idea is popular and used in many government documents and funding programmes.

Definition

The Brundtland Commission (World Commission on Environment and Development) coined the term Sustainable Development. According to it, Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

Gro Harlem Brundtland, first head of the commission.

Why do we need Sustainable Development?

We all need a better place to live. Some need better homes and housing, while others need better schools, more jobs, better shops, or cleaner or safer streets. Many might need all of these things!

Usually, the needs of the people are:-

A Better Environment with green spaces, clean play areas, decent houses, and less noise pollution can help. The resources used should be renewable over generations.

A Better Economy - Good jobs, reasonable prices, cheaper heat and light, no loan sharks.

Better Social Conditions - Good leisure facilities, community groups offering sports and arts, and friendly neighbours are other needs of the people.

Most people in developed nations have these needs, but poverty still exists. There are still plenty of ways in which their quality of life is under threat:

from crime

from pollution or

from living in neighbourhoods where no one in authority seems to care.

What happens when we do not follow sustainable development?

E.g. Here is a chain reaction event:-

Authorities wanted to keep the money to themselves. So, they did not spend money on schemes.

Due to this, society does not have transport services (Government).

No shops will be present (Entrepreneurs.)

Poor people will come to live there in search of cheap homes. (Poverty)

There will not be any job opportunities. (Employees)

The place turns into a breeding ground for criminals. (Crime)

Crimes rates will increase all across the country. (Crime)

The Police will try to control crimes. (Government)

To bring down crime rates, the government spends a lot of money.

In the end, since the government did not carry out its responsibility, it suffered a loss.

It is not just a local issue. We have similar problems at an international level. If the world governments are to deal with poverty, they do not just need to provide money and food aid. They need to help local people get educated and get jobs. People also need a safe environment with good homes and drinking water. To make these things work, governments also need to make sure that people have a voice in deciding what happens where they live.

We should conserve our resources for a better future.

When was the idea introduced?

In the 17th and 18th centuries, deforestation took place to expand agriculture. John Evelyn, a famous thinker, argued for the need to conserve forests and timber.

Thus, the idea of 'Sustainable forest management' was born.

Hans Carl von Carlowitz later built upon the idea by developing the concept of managing forests for a sustained yield. This idea inspired many people, like Alexander von Humboldt, Georg Ludwig Hartig, Gifford Pinchot (the first head of the US Forest Service) and Aldo Leopold (Land Ethic Movement).

[Image.jpg]

Over time, famous writers like Rachel Carson, Kenneth E. Boulding and Garrett Hardin drew attention to the relationship between economic growth and environmental degradation.

One of the first uses of the term sustainable in its current form was by the Club of Rome in 1972 in its classic report on the Limits to Growth, written by a group of scientists led by Dennis and Donella Meadows of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Later, an MIT research group prepared ten days of hearings on "Growth and Its Implication for the Future" for the US Congress, the first hearings ever held on sustainable development.

In 1980, the International Union for Conservation of Nature published a world conservation strategy that globally introduced the term "sustainable development".

Expansion of the idea

The Brundtland Commission Report, Our Common Future, develops upon this idea given by the IUCN. It focuses more on the goal of "socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic growth".

In 1992, the UN Conference on Environment and Development published the Earth Charter. It aims at a just, sustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century.

The conference also published the action plan 'Agenda 21' for sustainable development. It identified information, integration, and participation as the building blocks to help countries attain sustainable development. The UN now recognises these interdependent pillars. Furthermore, Agenda 21 emphasises that broad public participation in decision-making is a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable development.

Many areas have programmes to promote ‘local sustainability’, called ‘Local Agenda 21’ plans, named after the international Agenda 21 action plan for sustainable development agreed upon at the United Nations Earth Summit held in 1992.

The Rio Protocol was a leap forward. For the first time, the world agreed on a sustainability plan! The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now have concrete targets, a product of the Rio Protocol.

We have to achieve these goals by 2030.

Sustainable Development Goals:

The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations are the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. They replaced the Millennium Development Goals that expired at the end of 2015. The SDGs run from 2015 to 2030. There are 17 goals and 169 specific targets for those goals.

In August 2015, 193 countries agreed to the following 17 goals:

No Poverty

Zero hunger

Good health and wellbeing

Quality Education

Gender equality

Clean water and sanitation

Affordable and clean energy

Decent work and economic growth

Industry, innovation and infrastructure

Reduce inequality

Sustainable cities and communities

Responsible Consumption and Production

Climate action

Life below water

Life on land

Peace and justice. Strong institutions

Partnerships for the goals

The Pillars of Sustainability

The core of the idea is the matter of meeting people's needs while also keeping in mind:-

Environmental Sustainability

Economic Sustainability

Socio-political Sustainability

Environmental Sustainability

-> Consumption of natural resources

State of the environment

State of sustainability

-> More than nature's ability to replenish

Environmental degradation

Not sustainable

-> Equal to nature's ability to replenish

Environmental equilibrium

Steady-state economy

-> Less than nature's ability to replenish

Environmental renewal

Environmentally sustainable

Economic Sustainability

Due to rural poverty and overexploitation, environmental resources are economic assets. Traditionally, economic development requires growth in GDP. But, sustainable development may involve improvements in the quality of life for many and needs a decrease in resource consumption. "Growth" generally ignores the direct effect that the environment may have on social welfare, whereas "development" takes it into account.

A sustainable economy is an economy "in equilibrium with basic ecological support systems".

In 1987, the economist Edward Barbier published the study "The Concept of Sustainable Economic Development". He recognised that environmental conservation goals and economic development are not conflicting and can reinforce each other.

Socio-political Sustainability

A World Bank study from 1999 concluded that based on the theory of genuine savings, policymakers have many possible interventions to increase sustainability, in macroeconomics or purely environmental. (Genuine savings - defined as "traditional net savings less the value of resource depletion and environmental degradation plus the value of an investment in human capital") Several studies have noted that efficient renewable energy and pollution policies are compatible with increasing human welfare, eventually reaching a golden rule steady state.

If ambitious climate change mitigation policies do not align with the SDGs, they can have negative social and economic impacts. (Source: The 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report)

As a result, the transition towards sustainable development mitigation policies has slowed down. Other factors like poverty, food insecurity, and water scarcity may impede the government's application of policies that aim to build a low-carbon future. So, inclusivity and considerations of justice in these policies may weaken or support improvements in certain regions.

Sustainable cities

A sustainable city is an urban centre that improves its environmental impact through urban planning and management.

Imagine a city with parks and 'green spaces', solar-powered buildings, rooftop gardens, and more pedestrians and bicycles than cars. It is not a futuristic dream. "Smart cities" are actively moving towards greener urban ecosystems and better environmental management.

Environmental sustainability concerns the natural environment and how it endures and remains diverse and productive. Since the Earth provides us with natural resources, the state of air, water, and climate are of particular concern. Environmental sustainability requires society to design activities to meet human needs while preserving the vital elements of the planet. For example, it entails using water sustainably, using renewable energy and sustainable material supplies (e.g. harvesting wood from forests at a rate that maintains biomass and biodiversity).

An unsustainable situation occurs when the natural capital usage rate (the total of nature's resources) is faster than the replenishable rate. Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a naturally replenishable rate. The concept of sustainable development and carrying capacity have many similarities. Theoretically, the long-term result of environmental degradation is the inability to sustain human life.

Herman Daly published important operational principles of sustainable development in 1990:-

Renewable resources should provide a sustainable yield (the harvest rate should not exceed the regeneration rate);

for non-renewable resources, there should be equivalent development of renewable substitutes;

waste generation should not exceed the environmental capacity.

Education For Sustainable Development

Education for sustainable development (ESD) is a term used by the United Nations. ESD is education that encourages changes in knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for all. ESD aims to empower and equip current and future generations to meet their needs using a balanced and integrated approach to economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.

Agenda 21 was the first international document to recognise education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas for action. ESD is an indicator for Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG) for "responsible consumption and production".

SDG 12 has 11 targets. Target 12.8 aims to ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature by 2030. Twenty years after the creation of Agenda 21, the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development convened. It led to the release of the ‘Future we want’ document. It resolved to promote education for sustainable development and integrate Sustainable Development more actively into Education beyond the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development."

One version of ESD recognises modern-day environmental challenges. It also seeks to define new ways to adjust to a changing biosphere and engage individuals to address societal issues that come with them.

In the International Encyclopedia of Education, ESD is an attempt to "shift consciousness toward an ethics of life-giving relationships that respect the interconnectedness of man to his natural world". It aims to equip future members of society with environmental awareness and a sense of responsibility for sustainability.

Other versions

Document

Sustainable Development

Document

Sustainable Development

Document

Sugeeth’s Sustainable Development Project Text

My experience with the CBSE Heritage India Quiz

First and foremost, I am an Indian. I am proud to be a part of my family, school and country. So, what else can I do other than joyfully participate in a quiz on India's Heritage?

For those who haven't guessed yet, I participated in the CBSE Heritage India Quiz along with Sunay and Manav, my teammates.

Launched in 2001, the CBSE Heritage India Quiz is an annual quiz conducted by the CBSE to test students' knowledge of Indian Culture and Heritage.

This year, I (Sugeeth), Sunay (Class 11), and Manav (Class 9) represented our school in the quiz.

The theme for this year's quiz is "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" (celebrating India's 75th Independence day), encompassing various aspects of our history and culture.

Each school should send a team of three students, who will participate and represent the school for this quiz.

This quiz consists of three rounds. In the first round, the team has to attend an online test. The top 30 schools in each region will qualify for the next round.

The second round will be a contest between these 30 teams. Only one of the teams will qualify from the region for the final round.

The final round will consist of one team from each region. These teams will compete against each other in two phases, telecasted online. The winning team will get a cash prize of ₹25,000.

On 15/11/22, the first round went online! We had to download a PDF, which contained the questions for the exam. The participants had to choose the correct answers in the PDF and upload the PDF to CBSE within an hour of the start time.

Each question was picture-based and included questions from Indian Independence, Literature, Pre-Mughal history, Geography, Religion, Movies and GK. Some of them were puzzles, while others were case-based! Overall, we had to carefully answer the questions, which took us a lot of time! The 60 questions were jam-packed with information, and my team read over each question multiple times before answering.

The questions had a few clues with a picture, with which we had to select the correct answer from the four options given.

In the end, the quiz was fun and gave us many insights into Indian History and Culture. I thank the principal, the school management, the teachers and, of course, my team for giving me such an opportunity to learn more about India.

Lenovo stuff

I’ve been arguing with Lenovo regarding my product replacement.. this has what’s happened so far.

📎 Screenshot - Lenovo MP20CERB Docs.pdf

📎 Lenovo Customer Care Case ID/ 2020133433.pdf

📎 01_Warranty_Extensions.4f1ea944bc3edc23.pdf

📎 lenovo_pc_devices_services_agreement_feb2017-ap-english.pdf

📎 2021-Lenovo-Limited-Warranty-Updated-250221.pdf

📎 Premium-Care-IndiaT-C-2019.pdf

📎 Lenovo Customer Care Case ID 2020133433 n.pdf

In the end, they did not agree to replace my product, even though it was clearly mentioned in the terms of service that I was eligible for replacement. Anyways, I got my product repaired… but let's see how it holds up.

--

Update:

I went over to the nearest Lenovo Authorised Repair centre, that was about 25 KM away from my house, in the month of May. By that time, the issue had ballooned to a phase where my laptop's USB ports started to slow down and I got static discharge shocks from the laptop corners.

A nice technician listened to all of my issues keenly and said he'll take care of it. Within three days, I got a call from the technician requesting more details to proceed for advanced diagnostics. Within a few more days, I got an update. Turns out, the wire connecting the touchpad to the sub-board shorted out, and in the process, the sub-board got burnt out. 

I got shocked! It meant that I've been using a laptop that was a fire hazard for the past four years! And no one cared. I got lucky. I've had my fair shares of close brushes with "the end", "the inevitable"… but this one has been under my nose for so long!

Anyways, they fixed it within a few weeks and now I've got it back from them. However, I am now facing issues with my barrel charger after the fix, and it's been a bit frustrating. I hope to get that checked out!

Random Stuff

📎 Double Auto-save scripting  - V6.py

📎 Physics Investigatory Project - Final - Remakeroinium.pdf

📎 Configuration.xml

Microsoft Forms

An electrostatic field line is a continous curve. That is, a field line cannot have sudden breaks. Why not? Explain why two field lines never cross each other at any point?

Sob Stories and Ranting

Rant Coming up…

I like to express my thoughts a bit, and I've been meaning to get this off my chest… So be wary of what you read next, as you might not like what you see

Personally speaking, I have always been a studious student. I have always been at the top of my class, no fuss. That was, until 